---
id: 6.7
title: "Moving and Resizing Clips"
chapter: 6
---
# 6.7 Moving and Resizing Clips

A piece of audio or MIDI is represented in the Arrangement View by a clip sitting at some song
position in one of Live’s tracks.

Dragging a clip moves it to another song position or track.

Moving a Clip.

Dragging a clip’s left or right edge changes the clip’s length.

Changing a Clip’s Length.

Note that only the clip bar is draggable, it is not possible to drag from the clip’s waveform or MIDI
display.

Clips snap to the editing grid, as well as various objects in the Arrangement including the edges of
other clips, locators and time signature changes.

To slide the contents of a warped audio clip or a MIDI clip within the clip’s boundaries, hold Ctrl
Option (Mac) while dragging the clip’s waveform or MIDI display. To
Shift (Win) / Shift
bypass grid snapping, hold down Ctrl
Shift (Mac)
while dragging the clip’s contents.

Shift (Win) / Cmd

Option

Alt

6.8 Audio Clip Fades and Crossfades

The beginning and end of audio clips in the Arrangement View have adjustable volume fades.
Additionally, adjacent clips on the same audio track can be crossfaded.

Fade controls are located at the edges of audio clips, provided that the tracks are expanded enough
for the fade handles to be visible. If a track is folded or too small, you can adjust the height of the
track until the handles appear.

You can hover over an audio clip to access the fade handles, which initially appear as small squares
at the clip’s edges.

Fade Handles in an Audio Clip.

If Automation Mode is enabled, you can momentarily toggle the fade controls by holding the F key
while hovering over an automation lane.

The Fade In Start and Fade Out End handles let you change the duration of a fade in or fade out
without affecting the fade peaks. However, fade edges cannot move beyond fade peaks. You can
select one of the handles and drag it out across the clip to change the length of the fade. You can
further adjust the fade’s intensity using the Fade Curve handle, which shapes the curve of the fade.

Adjusted Fades in a Clip.

You can also set the length of a fade by selecting a range of time within the clip that includes the clip’s
beginning or end and executing the Create Fade In/Out command in the Create menu or using the
shortcut Ctrl

F (Win) / Cmd

F (Mac).

Option

Alt

Adjacent audio clips can be crossfaded. Creating and editing crossfades is similar to creating and
editing start and end fades:

•
•
•

Click and drag a fade handle over the adjacent clip’s edge to create a crossfade.
Click and drag the slope handle to adjust the shape of the crossfade’s curve.
Select a range of time that includes the boundary between the adjacent clips and execute the
Create Crossfade command from the Create menu.

Crossfaded Clips.

Selecting a fade handle and pressing the Delete key deletes the fade, unless the Create Fades on
Clip Edges option is enabled in the Record, Warp & Launch Settings. In this case, pressing Delete
returns the fade handle to a default length of 4 ms. These default fades help prevent pops or clicks at
clip edges.

Automatically Create Short Fades At Clip Edges.

Another result of enabling the Create Fades on Clip Edges option is that adjacent audio clips will
automatically get 4 ms crossfades. These can then be edited just like manually-created crossfades.

There are some limits to the length of fades and crossfades:

•
•

Fades cannot cross a clip’s loop boundaries.
A clip’s start and end fades cannot overlap each other.

When a fade handle is selected, a dotted black line will appear on the relevant clip to indicate the
limit for that handle. This is especially useful when editing crossfades, because one clip’s loop
boundary may be hidden under the other clip.

Note that fades are a property of clips rather than the tracks that contain them, and are independent
of automation envelopes.
