---
id: 39.25
title: "General Keyboard Navigation and"
chapter: 39
---
# 39.25 General Keyboard Navigation and

Workflow

You can navigate through most of Live’s menus, views and controls using the computer keyboard.

The Navigate menu in Live’s menu bar contains commands for moving keyboard focus to different
areas of the UI, as well as options for using Tab to navigate between controls. Additional navigation
commands can also be found in the Display & Input Settings.

39.25.1 Using Tab for Navigation

When the Use Tab to Move Focus option is enabled, the Tab key can be used to navigate in the
following ways:

•
•

Tab moves to the next control
Shift

Tab moves to the previous control

The Tab key can also be used to navigate between controls in the Session and Arrangement mixers
via these shortcuts:

•
•

Ctrl

Ctrl

Tab (Win) / Option
Shift

Tab (Win) / Option

the same row

Tab (Mac) moves to the next control in the same row

Shift

Tab (Mac) moves to the previous control in

When Use Tab to Move Focus is off, pressing the Tab key will switch between Session and
Arrangement View, as in previous Live versions.

In addition to using Tab to move focus, the following navigation options are also available:

•

•

Tab will navigate to the last control. This option can be enabled via

Wrap Tab Navigation - When this option is enabled, navigating with Tab will not stop at the
last control in a focused view, but will navigate back to the first control. If the first control is
selected, using Shift
the Navigate menu or the Display & Input Settings.
Move Clips with Arrow Keys - This option is enabled by default, and lets you use the left and
right arrow keys to move selected clips and/or the time selection in Arrangement View. This
behavior can be switched off in the Display & Input Settings if needed. When off, pressing the
left arrow key collapses the time selection to the start point, while pressing the right arrow key
collapses the time selection to the end point.

39.25.2 Navigating Between Controls in the Settings Menu

The Tab and Shift
These shortcuts work regardless of whether the Use Tab to Move Focus option is active or not.

Tab keys can be used to navigate between options inside the Settings tabs.

When a command is focused in any of the Settings tabs, the up and down arrow keys can be used to
change the state of a toggle, make value adjustments, or cycle through the available options for a
given command. It is also possible to use the Enter key to switch between toggle states.

To navigate between the different tabs in the Settings Page Chooser, use Ctrl
Shift
Option

Tab (Win) /
Tab (Mac) or the up
and down arrow keys when the chooser is focused. If the keyboard focus is on the first control of any
given Settings tab, use the Shift

Tab shortcut to return the focus to the Settings Page Chooser.

Tab (Mac) and Ctrl

Tab (Win) / Option

Shift
