---
id: 6.9
title: "Selecting Clips and Time"
chapter: 6
---
# 6.9 Selecting Clips and Time

Apart from moving and resizing clips, Arrangement editing is selection-based: you select something
and then execute a command (e.g., Cut, Copy, Paste, Duplicate) on the selection.

Here is how selection works:

•
•

•
•

Clicking a clip selects the clip.
Clicking into the Arrangement background selects a point in time, represented by a flashing
insert marker. The insert marker can then be moved in time with the left and right arrow keys, or
between tracks via the up and down arrow keys. Holding Ctrl (Win) / Option (Mac)
while pressing the left and right arrow keys snaps the insert marker to locators and the edges of
clips in the selected track or tracks.
Clicking and dragging selects a timespan.
 button next to the
To access the time within a clip for editing, unfold its track by clicking the
track name. Note that selected tracks can also be unfolded by pressing the U key. You can
adjust the height of the unfolded track by dragging the split line below the Unfold Track button,
- (Win) / Option
or by using the Alt
(Mac) shortcut keys. You can also resize the height of a track by pressing Alt (Win) /
Option (Mac) while using a pinch gesture on a supported trackpad or touchscreen. To resize
all tracks in the Arrangement View at once, hold Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) while resizing
a single track. You can also unfold all of your tracks at once by holding down the Alt
(Win) / Option (Mac) modifier when clicking the
U
(Win) / Option

 button, or by using the Alt

+ (Win) / Option

+ (Mac) and Alt

U (Mac) shortcut.

-

Adjusting an Unfolded Track’s Height.

•

Clicking and dragging in the clip’s waveform or MIDI display allows you to select time within
the clip.

•

•

•

•

•

Clicking on the loop brace is a shortcut for executing the Edit menu’s Select Loop command,
which selects all material within the loop.
Holding Shift while clicking extends an existing selection in the same track or across tracks.
You can also hold Shift and use the arrow keys to extend or shorten the selection.
Pressing the 0 key deactivates a selection of material, even if it contains multiple clips. Note
that pressing the 0 key while a track header is selected will deactivate that track.
It is possible to reverse a selection of audio material, even if it contains multiple audio clips. To
do this, select the range of time you want to reverse, and choose the Reverse Clip(s) command
from the clip’s context menu or press the R shortcut key. Note that it isn’t possible to reverse a
selection that contains MIDI clips.
You can nudge a selection of material using the left and right arrow keys.
