---
id: 26.21.1
title: "Sidechain Parameters"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.21.1 Sidechain Parameters

The Glue Compressor With Sidechain Section.

Normally, the signal being compressed and the input source that triggers the compressor are the same
signal. But by using sidechaining, it is possible to compress a signal based on the level of another
signal or a specific frequency component. To access the Sidechain parameters, unfold the Glue
Compressor window by toggling the

 button in its title bar.

The sidechain parameters are divided into two sections. On the left are the external controls. Enabling
this section with the Sidechain button allows you to select any of Live’s internal routing points from the
choosers below. This causes the selected source to act as the Glue Compressor’s trigger, instead of the
signal that is actually being compressed.

The Gain knob adjusts the level of the external sidechain’s input, while the Dry/Wet knob allows you
to use a combination of sidechain and original signal as the Glue Compressor’s trigger. With Dry/
Wet at 100%, the Glue Compressor is triggered entirely by the sidechain source. At 0%, the sidechain

is effectively bypassed. Note that increasing the gain does not increase the volume of the source
signal in the mix. The sidechain audio is only a trigger for the Glue Compressor and is never actually
heard.

On the right of the external section are the controls for the sidechain EQ. Enabling this section causes
the Glue Compressor to be triggered by a specific band of frequencies, instead of a complete signal.
These can either be frequencies in the compressed signal or, by using the EQ in conjunction with an
external sidechain, frequencies in another track’s audio.

The headphones button between the external and EQ sections allows you to listen to only the
sidechain input, bypassing the Glue Compressor’s output. Since the sidechain audio isn’t fed to the
output, and is only a trigger for the Glue Compressor, this temporary listening option can make it
much easier to set sidechain parameters and hear what’s actually making the Glue Compressor work.

26.21.1.1 Context Menu Options for Glue Compressor

Oversampling can be toggled on or off via the device title bar’s context menu. Enabling this option
causes the Glue Compressor to internally process at two times the current sampling rate, which may
reduce aliasing and transient harshness. There is a slight increase in CPU usage with Oversampling
enabled. Note that with Oversampling enabled, the level may exceed 0 dB even with Soft clip
enabled.
