---
id: 28.1.7
title: "LFOs"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.1.7 LFOs

Display and Shell Parameters for the two LFOs.

Analog’s two LFOs can be used as modulation sources for the oscillators, filters and amplifiers. As with
the other sections, each LFO has independent parameters.

The LFO 1 and LFO 2 switches in the shell toggle the respective LFO on and off, while the Rate knob
sets the LFO’s speed. The switch next to this knob toggles the Rate between frequency in Hertz and
tempo-synced beat divisions.

The Wave chooser in the display selects the waveform for the LFO. The choices are sine, triangle,
rectangle and two types of noise. The first noise type steps between random values while the second
uses smooth ramps. With Tri or Rect selected, the Width slider allows you to adjust the pulse width of
the waveform. With Tri selected, low Width values shift the waveform towards an upwards sawtooth,
while higher values result in a downward saw. At 50%, the waveform is a perfect triangle. The
behavior is similar with the Rect setting. At 50%, the waveform is a perfect square wave, while lower
and higher values result in negative or positive pulses, respectively. Note that Width is disabled when
the LFO’s waveform is set to sine or the noise modes.

The Delay slider sets how long it will take for the LFO to start after the note begins, while Attack sets
how long it takes the LFO to reach its full amplitude.

With Retrig enabled, the LFO restarts at the same position in its phase each time a note is triggered.
The Offset slider adjusts the phase of the LFO’s waveform.

28.1.8 Global Parameters

Display and Shell Parameters for the Global Options.

The Global shell and display parameters allow you to adjust Analog’s response to MIDI data and
controls for performance parameters such as vibrato and glide.

The Volume control in the shell adjusts the overall output of the instrument. This is the instrument’s
overall level, and can boost or attenuate the output of the amplifier sections.

The Vib switch turns the vibrato effect on or off, while the percentage slider next to it adjusts the
amplitude of the vibrato. Analog’s vibrato effect is essentially an additional LFO, but is hardwired to
the pitch of both oscillators. The Rate slider sets the speed of the vibrato.

Turning on the vibrato effect activates the four additional Vibrato parameters in the display. The Delay
slider sets how long it will take for the vibrato to start after the note begins, while Attack sets how long
it takes for the vibrato to reach full intensity. The Error slider adds a certain amount of random
deviation to the Rate, Amount, Delay and Attack parameters for the vibrato applied to each
polyphonic voice. The Amt < MW slider adjusts how much the modulation wheel will affect the vibrato
intensity. This control is relative to the value set in the vibrato amount percentage slider in the shell.

The Uni switch in the shell turns on the unison effect, which stacks multiple voices for each note played.
The Detune slider next to this switch adjusts the amount of tuning variation applied to each stacked
voice.

Turning on the unison effect activates the two additional Unison parameters in the display. The Voices
chooser selects between two or four stacked voices, while the Delay slider increases the lag time
before each stacked voice is activated.

The Gli switch turns the glide effect on or off. This is used to make the pitch slide between notes rather
than changing immediately. With Legato enabled, the sliding will only occur if the second note is
played before the first note is released. The Time slider sets the overall speed of the slide.

Turning on the glide effect activates an additional Glide Mode chooser in the display. Selecting Const
causes the glide time to be constant regardless of interval. Choosing Prop (proportional) causes the
glide time to be proportional to the interval between the notes. Large intervals will glide slower than
small intervals.

The four Quick Routing buttons on the left side of the display provide an easy way to quickly set up
common parameter routings. The upper left option configures a parallel routing structure, with each
oscillator feeding its own filter and amplifier exclusively. The upper right button is similar, but the

oscillators each split their output evenly between the two filters. The bottom left option feeds both
oscillators into Filter 1 and Amp 1, bypassing Filter 2 and Amp 2 entirely. Finally, the bottom right
option configures a serial routing structure, with both oscillators feeding Filter 1, which is then fed
exclusively to Filter 2 and Amp 2.

Note that the Quick Routing options do not affect any changes you may have made to the oscillator
level, tuning or waveform parameters — they only adjust the routing of the oscillators to the filters and
subsequent amplifiers.

The Keyboard section in the display contains all of Analog’s tuning and polyphony parameters. The
Octave, Semi and Detune controls function as coarse and fine tuners. Octave transposes the entire
instrument by octaves, while Semi transposes up or down in semitone increments. The Detune slider
adjusts tuning in increments of one cent (up to a maximum of 50 cents up or down).

PB Range sets the range of pitch bend modulation in semitones.

Stretch simulates a technique known as stretch tuning, which is a common tuning modification made to
electric and acoustic pianos. At 0%, Analog will play in equal temperament, which means that two
notes are an octave apart when the upper note’s fundamental pitch is exactly twice the lower note’s.
Increasing the Stretch amount raises the pitch of upper notes while lowering the pitch of lower ones.
The result is a more brilliant sound. Negative values simulate “negative“ stretch tuning; upper notes
become flatter while lower notes become sharper.

The Error slider increases the amount of random tuning error applied to each note.

The Voices chooser sets the available polyphony, while Priority determines which notes will be cut off
when the maximum polyphony is exceeded. When Priority is set to High, new notes that are higher
than currently sustained notes will have priority, and notes will be cut off starting from the lowest pitch.
Low is the opposite. A Priority setting of Last gives priority to the most recently played notes, cutting off
the oldest notes as necessary.
