---
id: 28.1.2
title: "Oscillators"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.1.2 Oscillators

Display and Shell Parameters for the two Oscillators.

Analog’s two oscillators use physical modelling to capture the character of vintage hardware
oscillators. Because they use modelling instead of wavetables, they avoid aliasing.

Each oscillator can be turned on or off independently via the switch labelled Osc 1 or Osc 2 in the
shell, and the oscillator’s output level is adjusted by the slider to the right of this activator.

The F1/F2 slider controls the balance of the oscillator’s output to each of the two filters. When the
slider is at the center position, equal amounts of signal will be sent to both filters. When set all the way
to the top or bottom, signal will only be sent to Filter 1 or Filter 2 respectively.

The Shape chooser selects the oscillator’s waveform. The choices are sine, sawtooth, rectangular and
white noise. When rectangular is selected, the Pulse Width parameter is enabled in the display, which
allows you to change the pulse width of the waveform. Low Width values result in a very narrow
waveform, which tends to sound tinny or “pinched.“ At 100%, the waveform is a perfect square,
resulting in only odd harmonics. The pulse width can also be modulated by an LFO, via the slider next
to Width. Note that this parameter is only enabled when the corresponding LFO is enabled.

The Octave, Semi and Detune knobs in the shell function as coarse and fine tuners. Octave transposes
the oscillator by octaves, while Semi transposes up or down in semitone increments. The Detune knob
adjusts in increments of one cent (up to a maximum of three semitones (300 cents) up or down).

Oscillator pitch can be modulated according to the settings of the Pitch Mod and Pitch Env
parameters in the display. The LFO slider sets the amount that the LFO modulates pitch. Again, this
parameter is only enabled if the LFO is on. The Key slider controls how much the oscillator tuning is
adjusted by changes in MIDI note pitch. The default value of 100% means that the oscillator will
conform to a conventional equal tempered scale. Higher or lower values change the amount of space
between the notes on the keyboard. At 0%, the oscillator is not modulated by note pitch at all. To get
a sense of how this works, try leaving one of the oscillators at 100% and setting the other’s Key
scaling to something just slightly different. Then play scales near middle C. Since C3 will always
trigger the same frequency regardless of the Key value, the oscillators will get farther out of tune with
each other the farther away from C3 you play.

The Pitch Env settings apply a ramp that modulates the oscillator’s pitch over time. Initial sets the
starting pitch of the oscillator while Time adjusts how long it will take for the pitch to glide to its final
value. You can adjust both parameters via the sliders or by adjusting the breakpoints in the envelope
display.

The Sub/Sync parameters in the display allow you to apply either a sub-oscillator or a hard
synchronization mode. When the Mode chooser is set to Sub, the Level slider sets the output level of
an additional oscillator, tuned an octave below the main oscillator. The sub-oscillator produces a
square wave when the main oscillator’s Shape control is set to rectangle or sawtooth and a sine wave
when the main oscillator is set to sine. Note that the sub-oscillator is disabled when the main
oscillator’s Shape is set to white noise.

When the Mode chooser is set to Sync, the oscillator’s waveform is restarted by an internal oscillator
whose frequency is set by the Ratio slider. At 0%, the frequency of the internal oscillator and the
audible oscillator match, so sync has no effect. As you increase the Ratio, the internal oscillator’s rate
increases, which changes the harmonic content of the audible oscillator. For maximum analog
nastiness, try mapping a modulation wheel or other MIDI controller to the Sync ratio.

28.1.3 Noise Generator

Analog’s Noise Generator.

The Noise generator produces white noise and includes its own -6db/octave low-pass filter. The
generator can be turned on or off via the Noise switch in the shell. Its output level is adjusted by the
slider to the right of this activator.

The F1/F2 slider controls the balance of the noise generator’s output to each of the two filters. When
the slider is at the center position, equal amounts of signal will be sent to both filters. When set all the
way to the top or bottom, signal will only be sent to Filter 1 or Filter 2 respectively.

The Color knob sets the frequency of the internal low-pass filter. Higher values result in more high-
frequency content.

Note that Noise has only shell parameters, so adjusting them does not change what is shown in the
display.
