---
id: 28.1.4
title: "Filters"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.1.4 Filters

Display and Shell Parameters for the two Filters.

Analog’s two multi-mode filters come equipped with a flexible routing architecture, multiple saturation
options and a variety of modulation possibilities. As with the oscillators, all parameters can be set
independently for each filter.

The Fil 1 and Fil 2 switches in the shell toggle the respective filter on and off. The chooser next to the
filter activator selects the filter type from a selection of 2nd and 4th order low-pass, band-pass, notch,
high-pass and formant filters.

The resonance frequency of the filter is adjusted with the Freq knob in the shell, while the amount of
resonance is adjusted with the Reso control. When a formant filter is chosen in the chooser, the Reso
control cycles between vowel sounds.

Below each mode chooser is an additional control which differs between the two filters. In Filter 1, the
To F2 slider allows you to adjust the amount of Filter 1’s output that will be sent to Filter 2. The Follow
switch below Filter 2’s mode chooser causes this filter’s cutoff frequency to follow the cutoff of Filter 1.
If this is enabled, Filter 2’s cutoff knob controls the amount of offset between the two cutoff amounts. If
any of Analog’s modulation sources are controlling Filter 1’s cutoff, Filter 2 will also be affected by
them when Follow is enabled.

In addition to the envelope controls, the displays for the filters contain various modulation parameters
and the Drive chooser. Cutoff frequency and resonance can be independently modulated by LFO,
note pitch and filter envelope via the sliders in the Freq Mod and Res Mod sections respectively.
Positive modulation values will increase the cutoff or resonance amounts, while negative values will
lower them.

The Drive chooser in the display selects the type of saturation applied to the filter output. The three Sym
options apply symmetrical distortion, which means that the saturation behavior is the same for positive
and negative values. The Asym modes result in asymmetrical saturation. For both mode types, higher
numbers result in more distortion. Drive can be switched off entirely by selecting Off in the chooser.
Experiment with the various options to get a sense of how they affect incoming signals.
