---
id: 28.1.5
title: "Amplifiers"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.1.5 Amplifiers

Display and Shell Parameters for the two Amplifiers.

After the filters, the signal is routed to an amplifier which further shapes the sound with an amplitude
envelope and panning. All parameters can be set independently for each amplifier.

The Amp 1 and Amp 2 switches in the shell toggle the respective amplifier on and off, while the output
level is controlled by the Level knob. The Pan knob sets the position of the amplifier’s output in the
stereo field.

In addition to the envelope controls, the displays for the amplifiers contain various modulation
parameters. The Pan and Level amounts can be independently modulated by LFO, note pitch and amp
envelope via the sliders in the Pan Mod and Level Mod sections respectively. Note that, when using
note pitch as the modulation source for Level, middle C will always sound the same regardless of the
modulation amount. Positive values will cause the level to increase for higher notes.

28.1.6 Envelopes

Analog’s Envelope Parameters.

In addition to the pitch envelopes in the oscillator sections, Analog is equipped with independent
envelopes for each filter and amplifier. All four of these envelopes have identical controls, which are
housed entirely within the display. Each envelope is a standard ADSR (attack, decay, sustain, release)
design and features velocity modulation and looping capabilities.

The attack time is set with the Attack slider. This time can also be modulated by velocity via the Att <
Vel slider. As you increase the Att < Vel value, the attack time will become increasingly shorter at
higher velocities.

The time it takes for the envelope to reach the sustain level after the attack phase is set by the Decay
slider.

The Sustain slider sets the level at which the envelope will remain from the end of the decay phase to
the release of the key. When this knob is turned all the way to the left, there is no sustain phase. With it
turned all the way to the right, there is no decay phase.

The overall envelope level can be additionally modulated by velocity via the Env < Vel slider.

The S.Time slider can cause the Sustain level to decrease even if a key remains depressed. Lower
values cause the Sustain level to decrease more quickly.

Finally, the release time is set with the Release knob. This is the time it takes for the envelope to reach
zero after the key is released.

The Slope switches toggle the shape of the envelope segments between linear and exponential. This
change is also represented in the envelope visualization.

Normally, each new note triggers its own envelope from the beginning of the attack phase. With
Legato enabled, a new note that is played while another note is already depressed will use the first
note’s envelope, at its current position.

Enabling the Free switch causes the envelope to bypass its sustain phase and move directly from the
decay phase to the release phase. This behavior is sometimes called “trigger“ mode because it
produces notes of equal duration, regardless of how long the key is depressed. Free mode is ideal for
percussive sounds.

The Loop chooser offers several options for repeating certain segments of the envelope while a key is
depressed. When Off is selected, the envelope plays once through all of its segments without looping.

With AD-R selected, the envelope begins with the attack and decay phases as usual, but rather than
maintaining the sustain level, the attack and decay phases will repeat until the note is released, at
which point the release phase occurs. ADR-R mode is similar, but also includes the release phase in
the loop for as long as the key is held.

Note that in both AD-R and ADR-R modes, enabling Free will cause notes to behave as if they’re
permanently depressed.

ADS-R mode plays the envelope without looping, but plays the attack and release phases once more
when the key is released. With short attack and release times, this mode can simulate instruments with
audible dampers.
