---
id: 06
title: ", 7 , 8 , 9 , and"
chapter: 06
---
# 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , and

Note that any setting other than “None“ will quantize the clip’s launch when it is triggered by Follow
Actions.

16.5 Velocity

The Velocity Amount Field.

The Velocity Amount control allows you to adjust the effect of MIDI note velocity on the clip’s volume:
If set to zero, there is no influence; at 100 percent, the softest notes play the clip silently. For more on
playing clips via MIDI, check out the MIDI and Key Remote Control chapter.

16.6 Clip Offset and Nudging

To jump within a playing clip in increments the size of the global quantization period, you can use the
Nudge Backward/Forward buttons.

Using the Nudge Backward/Forward Buttons to Jump Through a Clip.

These buttons can also be mapped to keys or MIDI controllers. In MIDI Map Mode, a scrub control
will appear between the Nudge Backward/Forward buttons and can be assigned to a rotary
encoder wheel for continuous scrubbing.

The Scrub Control in MIDI Map Mode.

With quantization set to values less than one bar, it is easy to offset clip playback from Live’s master
clock by launching clips, using the Nudge Backward/Forward buttons or scrubbing within the clip.

16.7 Follow Actions

Follow Actions can trigger clips in an orderly or random way (or both). A clip’s Follow Action defines
what happens to other clips in the same group after the clip plays. A group is defined by clips
arranged in successive slots of the same track. Tracks can have an unlimited number of groups,
separated by empty slots.

You can also apply Follow Actions to scenes using controls in the Scene View.

The Follow Action Controls.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Enter keyboard

The Follow Action button activates or deactivates Follow Actions for the selected clip or scene.
This button is disabled by default, and can be toggled using the Shift
shortcut.
The Follow Action choosers allow selecting two different Follow Actions, A and B. The available
Follow Actions are described in more detail below.
The Chance A and Chance B controls set the probability (in a percentage) that each Follow
Action will be triggered. If a clip or scene has Chance A set to 100% and Chance B set to 0%,
Follow Action A will occur every time the clip or scene is launched. As we can see from this
example, a Chance setting of 0% means that an action will never happen. Changing Chance B
to 90% in this scenario makes Follow Action A occur much less often — approximately once out
of every ten clip or scene launches. Note that in addition to the Chance A and Chance B
controls, you can drag the slider located between them to adjust the Chance values.
The Linked/Unlinked switch is only available for clips, and has two different modes. This switch
is set to Linked by default. In Linked mode, the Follow Action is triggered at the end of the clip,
or after the number of loops set in the Follow Action Multiplier field. In Unlinked mode, the
Follow Action is triggered after the clip has played for the duration of the Follow Action Time.
The Follow Action Time control, which is available for both clips and scenes, defines when the
Follow Action takes place in bars-beats-sixteenths from the point in the clip or scene where play
starts. The default for this setting is one bar. In the Sample/MIDI Notes Editor, a marker

visualizes the Follow Action Time of a clip, and dragging this marker adjusts the clip’s Follow
Action Time.

There are ten Follow Actions available:

 means that no Follow Action will occur. Once a clip has been triggered with No

Action, any other selected Follow Action in the clip will no longer have a chance of occurring, even if
its Follow Action Chance is set to 100%.

 simply stops the clip after it has played for the chosen Follow Action Time. Note that

this overrides clip loop/region settings.

 restarts the clip.

 triggers the previous clip (the one above the current one).

 triggers the next clip down in the group. If a clip with this setting is last in a group, this

Follow Action triggers the first clip.

 launches the first (top) clip in a group.

 launches the last (bottom) clip in a group.

 plays any clip in the group.

 is similar to “Any,“ but as long as the current clip is not alone in the group, no clip will

play consecutively.

 lets you select a target clip slot or scene for the Follow Action to jump to. When Jump
is selected, a Jump Target slider appears next to the Follow Action chooser. To adjust target clip slot or
scene value, drag the Jump Target slider up or down, or click and type in a number.

Clips and scenes with assigned Follow Actions are indicated by a striped Clip/Scene Launch button,
to help you identify them more easily.

Assigning a Follow Action to a Clip Changes Its Clip Launch Button.

Note that a clip Follow Action happens exactly after the duration that is specified by the Follow Action
Time controls unless clip quantization is set to a value other than “None“ or “Global.“ Follow Actions
circumvent global quantization but not clip quantization.

Next to the Back to Arrangement button, an Enable Follow Actions Globally button lets you enable or
disable all clip and scene Follow Actions in the Live Set. By disabling the Enable Follow Actions
Globally button, you can edit running clips without being interrupted by playback jumping to other
clips. Note that when a Live Set does not contain any clip or scene Follow Actions, the Enable Follow
Actions Globally button will appear grayed out.

The Enable Follow Actions Globally button.

Note that Follow Actions in clips will continue to run when a scene Follow Action is created or
scheduled, however Follow Actions in scenes always take precedence once they are triggered.

So why do you need Follow Actions? Music is repetition and change. Music based on loops or short
melodic fragments has a tendency to sound static. Follow Actions allow you to create structures that
will repeat but can also be surprising. Remember that you can always record the results of your
experiments, so this can provide a good source for new material.

In the following sections we will look at some practical examples and ideas for Follow Actions.

16.7.1 Looping Parts of a Clip

Let’s say that you want to play a longer clip, but then you want only the last eight bars to loop. You
can set this up using Follow Actions:

1.

2.

Drag the clip into the Arrangement View and make sure that the Clip View’s Loop switch is not
activated. Use the Edit menu’s Split command to split the clip between the non-looping and
looping parts.
Click and drag the resulting two clips into the Session View by letting the mouse cursor hover
over the Session View selector. Drop the two clips into a track. They now form a Follow Action
group.

Creating a Group With the Two Clips.

1.

2.

Set up Follow Actions for the first clip. You will want to make Follow Action Time equal to the
clip’s length. Set the Follow Action A chooser to “Next“, with a Chance setting of 100%, and
set Follow Action B to “No Action“. Now this clip is set up to advance to the looping clip after it
plays.
Activate the Loop switch for the second clip.

The first clip will now proceed to the second after it has played in its entirety; the second clip will
simply play in a loop until it is stopped.

16.7.2 Creating Cycles

One of the most obvious possibilities that Follow Actions open up is using a group of samples to form
a musical cycle. If we organize several clips or scenes as a group and use the “Next“ Follow Action
with each clip or scene, they will play one after the other ad infinitum, or until we tell them to stop.

Cycles can be peppered with occasional rearrangements through the addition of other Follow
Actions, such as “Any,“ with smaller relative Chance settings.

You can also set up Follow Actions so that all selected clips play in a loop, by choosing the Create
Follow Action Chain command from a clip’s context menu. Note that the clip selection does not have
to be contiguous.

16.7.3 Temporarily Looping Clips

There are some interesting applications of Follow Actions when it comes to creating temporary musical
loops.

Imagine a group consisting of one single clip. Follow Action A is set to “Play Again,“ with a Chance of
80%. Follow Action B is set to “No Action,“ with a Chance of 20%. The clip uses a long sample, and
Follow Time is set to one bar. Clicking on the clip will play the first bar, after which it will be very likely
that it will play the first bar again. However, after a few repetitions, it will eventually come to Action B
— “No Action“ — and continue playing the rest of the sample.

Or, a clip can be played from its start to a specific point, when its Follow Action tells it to “Next.“ The
same file can be used in the next clip in the group, but this one can be set to loop. This second clip can
have any manner of Follow Action settings, so that it might then play forever, for a specified time or
until random chance leads to the next clip in the group.

16.7.4 Adding Variations in Sync

Paired with clip envelopes and warping, Follow Actions can be used to create all sorts of interesting
variations within a group of similar clips. You could, for example, use Follow Actions to randomly
trigger clips with different MIDI controller clip envelopes, so that fine variations in pitch bend or
modulation of an instrument or synth could occur as the clips in a group interacted. Audio clips could
morph between different effect or clip transposition settings.

Using Follow Actions and Legato Mode together provides a powerful way of gradually changing a
melody or beat. Imagine that you have several identical clips of a melody that form a group, and they
are set up to play in Legato Mode. Whenever their Follow Actions tell them to move on to another clip
in the group, the melody will not change, as Legato Mode will sync the new play position with the old
one in beat-time. The settings and clip envelopes of each clip (or even the actual notes contained in a
MIDI clip) can then be slowly adjusted, so that the melody goes through a gradual metamorphosis.

16.7.5 Mixing up Melodies and Beats

You can let Follow Actions perform unpredictable remixes and solos for you. Copy a clip containing a
beat or melody so that there are several instances of it. Alternatively, you can use several different
beats or melodies that you want to mix together. The start and end for each clip can be set differently,
as can clip envelopes and other clip settings. As long as Follow Action Time in each clip is equal to
the length of the clip that you want to play, you can set up two Follow Actions with different Chance
values in each clip, launch a clip, and surprise yourself.

16.7.6 Creating Nonrepetitive Structures

Follow Actions are great when it comes to sound installations, as they allow you to create structures
that play for weeks or months and never exactly repeat. You can set the Follow Action Time controls in
a series of clips to odd intervals, and the clips will interact with each other so that they never quite
play in the same order or musical position. Remember that each clip can have two different Follow
Actions with corresponding Chance settings… have fun!

17. Routing and I/O

In the context of Live, “routing“ is the setup of the tracks’ signal sources and destinations (i.e., their
inputs and outputs). Most routing happens in the mixer’s track In/Out section, which offers, for every
track, choosers to select a signal source and destination. The mixer’s In/Out section is Live’s
“patchbay.“

The Mixer’s In/Out Section.

You can show or hide the I/O section of the mixer in either Session or Arrangement View using the
In/Out entry in the mixer’s view control menu in the bottom right corner of Live’s window, or via the
View menu’s In/Out option in the Mixer Controls submenu, or using the shortcut Ctrl
(Win) / Ctrl

I (Mac).

Option

Alt

I

The Mixer View Control’s Options Menu.

For every track that can play clips, the In/Out section has the same layout:

•

•

•

The upper chooser pair (“Audio/MIDI From“) selects the track’s input. Audio tracks have an
audio input, and MIDI tracks have a MIDI input. Return tracks receive their input from the
respective sends.
The Monitor radio button selects the monitor mode: the conditions under which the track’s input
is heard through the track.
The lower chooser pair (“Audio/MIDI To“) selects the track’s output. All tracks have audio
outputs, except for MIDI tracks without instruments. Remember that instruments convert MIDI to
audio.

Within a chooser pair, the upper chooser selects the signal category (“Ext.,“ for instance, for external
connections via an audio or MIDI interface), and is called the Input/Output Type chooser. If this
signal type offers sub-selections or channels, they are available from the lower chooser, or the Input/
Output Channel chooser. In our “Ext.“ example, these would be the individual audio/MIDI inputs and
outputs.

17.1 Monitoring

“Monitoring,“ in the context of Live, means passing a track’s input signal on to the track’s output.
Suppose you have set up an audio track to receive its input signal from a guitar. Monitoring then
means that the signal from your live guitar playing actually reaches the track’s output, via the track’s
device chain. If the track’s output is set to “Main,“ you can hear the guitar signal, processed by
whatever effects are used (and delayed by whatever latency the audio hardware interface incurs),
over your speakers.

The In/Out section offers, for every audio track and MIDI track, a Monitor radio button with the
following three options:

•

The default Auto-monitoring setting does the right thing for most straightforward recording
applications: Monitoring is on when the track is armed, but monitoring is inhibited as long as
the track is playing clips.

•

To permanently monitor the track’s input, regardless of whether the track is armed or clips are
playing, choose In. This setting effectively turns the track into what is called an “Aux“ on some
systems: the track is not used for recording but for bringing in a signal from elsewhere. With this
setting, output from the clips is suppressed. An “In“ monitoring setting can be easily recognized
even when the In/Out section is hidden by the blue color of the track’s Activator switch.

•

Monitoring can be turned off altogether by choosing the Off option. This is useful when
recording acoustic instruments which are monitored “through the air,“ when using an external
mixing console for monitoring or when using an audio hardware interface with a “direct
monitoring“ option that bypasses the computer so as to avoid latency. Generally, it is
preferable to work with an audio interface that allows for negligible latencies (a few
milliseconds). If you are recording into Live with monitoring set to “Off,“ you may want to make
the Audio Settings’ Overall Latency adjustment, which is described in the built-in program
tutorial on setting up the Audio Settings.

When monitoring is set to “In” or “Auto,” the “Keep Monitoring Latency in Recorded Audio” option
will be enabled by default. This adjusts the timing of the recording to match what is heard through
Live’s monitoring. Generally speaking it is recommended to leave this option enabled when recording
software instruments or effects, and to switch it off when recording acoustic instruments or relying on
external monitoring. You can right-click on the “In” or “Auto” monitor buttons to manually switch
“Keep Monitoring Latency in Record Audio” on or off.

If multiple tracks are selected, pressing one of the Monitor buttons applies this selection to all of the
selected tracks.

The Monitor buttons can also be restored to their default state. When the In/Out section is expanded,
you can press the Delete key to reset the Monitor buttons to the default (“Off” for audio tracks and
“Auto” for MIDI tracks), or you can select the Edit menu option “Return to Default.”

17.2 External Audio In/Out

An audio interface’s inputs are selected by choosing “Ext. In“ from the Input Type chooser of an audio
track. The Input Channel chooser then offers the individual input channels. Entries in this chooser each
have meters next to their names to help you identify signal presence and overload (when the meter
flashes red). Setting up the audio interface’s outputs works the same way via the output chooser pair.
If multiple tracks are selected, any changes you make to these choosers will be applied to all selected
tracks.

The list of available inputs and outputs depends on the Audio Settings, which can be reached via the
Input and Output Channel choosers’ “Configure…“ option. Note that the Audio Settings also provide
access to the Channel Configuration dialogs, which determine which inputs and outputs are used, and
whether they are available to Live as mono or stereo pairs. Essentially, the Channel Configuration
dialog tells Live what it needs to know about how the computer is connected to the other audio
components in your studio.

You can rename any input and output channels that appear in the Channel Configuration dialogs. If
changed, the new name(s) will be displayed in the corresponding Input / Output Channel chooser
drop-down. You can rename channels more quickly by using the Tab key to move between them.
Note that changed names are always associated with their respective audio device.

17.2.1 Mono/Stereo Conversions

When a mono signal is chosen as an audio track’s input, the track will record mono samples;
otherwise it will record stereo samples. Signals in the track’s device chain are always stereo, even
when the track’s input is mono or when the track plays mono samples.

Mono is turned into stereo simply by using the identical signal for left and right channels. When a
track is routed into a mono output, the left and right signals are added together and attenuated by 6
dB to avoid clipping.

17.3 External MIDI In/Out

MIDI from the outside world is routed into Live just like audio. From the Input Type chooser of a MIDI
track, you can either select a specific MIDI input port or “All Ins,“ which is the merged input of all
external MIDI ports. The Input Channel chooser offers the individual input channels of the selected
MIDI port and the merged signal of all channels, “All Channels.“ As is the case with audio inputs, the
Input Channel chooser also has meters next to every entry to represent activity on the respective input
channel. If multiple MIDI tracks are selected, any changes you make to these choosers will be applied
to all selected tracks.

17.3.1 MIDI Port Inputs and Outputs

You can configure which MIDI ports are made available to Live using the Inputs and Outputs options
in the MIDI section of the Link, Tempo & MIDI Settings. All available input and output ports are listed
here. You can use any number of MIDI ports for track input and output; the mixer’s In/Out choosers
allow them to be addressed individually.

The MIDI Port Inputs and Outputs List in the Settings.

17.3.1.1 Track

Enabling Track allows Live to send or receive note and CC (Control Change) messages, for example,
when using a MIDI keyboard to play or enter pitches.

Activate Track for a MIDI port’s input when: - Playing instruments in Live with a MIDI keyboard. -
Recording notes into MIDI clips. - Recording MIDI CC messages into MIDI clips, for example to
capture parameter changes from an external hardware synthesizer.

Activate Track for a MIDI port’s output when: - Triggering an external hardware device (like a
synthesizer, drum machine, etc). - Sending MIDI notes to another application (using a virtual MIDI
bus). - Sending MIDI CC automation to an external device or application.

Note: You only need to activate Track on the output port for a MIDI controller if it has a built-in sound
generator.

17.3.1.2 Sync

Sync allows Live to send or receive MIDI Clock, or receive MIDI Timecode. Note: Unless it has a built-
in sequencer or arpeggiator, you won’t ever need to activate Sync on the input or output ports of a
MIDI controller.

Activate Sync for a MIDI port’s input when: - Synchronizing Live to an external sequencer, drum
machine or groove box. - Synchronizing Live to another DAW using MIDI.

Activate Sync for a MIDI port’s output when: - Synchronizing an external sequencer, drum machine or
groove box to Live using MIDI Clock. - Synchronizing another DAW to Live using MIDI Clock. -
Synchronizing the LFO and arpeggiator of an external synthesizer or MIDI controller to Live.

When Sync is enabled for a port’s output, you can access a set of additional options by pressing the
triangle next to the port’s name.

Sync Output Options.

You can adjust the MIDI Clock Sync Delay amount to add a delay to outgoing MIDI sync signals in
milliseconds. This can help correct any timing issues that occur between Live and the external
hardware.

MIDI Clock Type can be set to either Song to Pattern. In Song Mode, Live will send out MIDI Song
Position Pointer (SPP) and Continue messages each time the play position changes. In Pattern Mode,
Live will only use Start messages, sent out at the start of the following bar. Use Pattern Mode if your
MIDI device does not recognize SPP messages.

The Hardware Resync drop-down lets you choose how a resync message is sent when the Resync
External Hardware option is enabled.

Resync External Hardware Option.

When enabled, the Resync External Hardware button appears in Live’s Control bar, and can be used
to send resync messages out to external gear. This is useful when synced hardware drifts out of time
with the Live Set during playback.

The Resync External Hardware Button in the Control Bar.

The default behavior is Stop and Start, which sends a resync message consisting of a MIDI Clock Stop
event followed by a MIDI Clock Start event; this works best with most MIDI devices. If set to Start
Only, just the MIDI Clock Start event resync message is sent; this might work better for some devices.
If set to Don’t Resync, no resync messages are sent.

17.3.1.3 Remote

The Remote switch allows you to create mappings from a MIDI controller to parameters in Live or to
send feedback to a MIDI controller.

Activate Remote for a MIDI port’s input when: - Creating custom MIDI mappings to be able to control
parameters in Live. - Using a MIDI keyboard to trigger MIDI Clips.

Activate Remote for a MIDI port’s output when: - Using MIDI controllers with LEDs that reflect the
status of mapped Live parameters. - Using MIDI controllers with motorized faders that reflect the status
of mapped Live parameters.

17.3.2 Playing MIDI With the Computer Keyboard

The computer keyboard can be used for generating MIDI notes from computer keyboard strokes. To
turn the computer MIDI keyboard on, activate the Control Bar’s Computer MIDI Keyboard button, or
enable the “Computer MIDI Keyboard” entry in the Options menu, or use the M shortcut.

Activating the Computer MIDI Keyboard.

The center row of letter keys on the keyboard will play notes corresponding to the white keys on a
piano, beginning on the left with the note C3. The black keys on a piano correspond to the upper row
of computer keys. The four leftmost letters on the lower row of the keyboard (Z,X,C, and V on a U.S.-
English keyboard) are used to transpose the note range and to set velocity, as follows:

•
•

The leftmost keys (Z and X) adjust the keyboard’s octave range.
The next two keys (C and V) adjust incoming note velocity by intervals of twenty (20, 40, 60,
and so on).

When the computer keyboard is set to send notes between C3 and C4, the keys are mapped to MIDI
notes in such a way that the center row of the keyboard (ASDF…), corresponds to the Impulse

percussion sampler’s sample slots. This means that you can play and record drum patterns directly
from the computer keyboard.

Note that when the computer MIDI keyboard is activated, it will “steal“ keys that may have otherwise
been assigned to remote-control elements of the Live interface. To prevent this, you can turn the
computer MIDI keyboard off when it is not needed. Additionally, shortcuts that use single letters, such
as S for soloing tracks, can be accessed when the Computer MIDI Keyboard is enabled by adding
Shift , e.g., Shift

S .

17.3.3 Connecting External Synthesizers

Routing MIDI to an external synthesizer is straightforward: The Output Type chooser is set to whatever
MIDI port the synthesizer is connected to; the Output Channel chooser is used to select which MIDI
channel to send on.

In addition to routing via a track’s In/Out section, it is also possible to route from within a track’s
device chain by using the External Instrument device. In this case, you can send MIDI out to the
external synthesizer and return its audio — all within a single track.

Important: If you are using a keyboard synthesizer both as a keyboard to play into Live and as a
sound generator, then please make sure to check the synthesizer’s “Local Off“ function. Every
synthesizer has this function, which effectively separates the keyboard from the sound generator,
allowing you to treat both components as if they were separate devices. This allows you to use Live as
the hub of your MIDI studio, which receives MIDI from the keyboard and dispatches the incoming
MIDI, as well as the MIDI from the clips, as appropriate.

17.3.4 MIDI In/Out Indicators

Live’s Control Bar contains three pairs of indicator LEDs that tell you about incoming and outgoing
MIDI. These indicators tell you not only about the presence of signals, but also about their use. In
every pair, the upper indicator flashes when a MIDI message is received, and the lower indicator
flashes when a MIDI message is sent.

The Control Bar’s MIDI Indicators.

The three indicator pairs represent, from left to right:

1.

2.
3.

MIDI Clock and Timecode signals that are used for synchronizing Live with other sequencers.
Note that this set of indicators is only visible when an external sync source has been enabled
for a MIDI port in the Link, Tempo & MIDI Settings;
MIDI messages that are used for remote-controlling Live’s user-interface elements;
MIDI messages coming from and going to Live’s MIDI tracks.

MIDI messages that are mapped to remote-control Live’s user-interface elements are “eaten up“ by
the remote control assignment and will not be passed on to the MIDI tracks. This is a common cause of
confusion that can be easily resolved by looking at the indicators.

17.4 Resampling

Live’s Main output can be routed into an individual audio track and recorded, or resampled.
Resampling can be a fun and useful tool, as it lets you create samples from what is currently
happening in a Live Set that can then be immediately integrated. It can be used to record tracks that
include processor-intensive devices, so as to delete the devices, or for quickly previewing before
rendering to disk.

The “Resampling“ option in any audio track’s Input Type chooser will route the Main output to that
track. You can then decide on what exactly you will be resampling and mute, solo or otherwise adjust
the tracks that are feeding the Main output. You will probably want to use the Main Volume meter to
make sure that your level is as high as possible without clipping (indicated by red in the meter). Then
you can arm the track and record into any of its empty clip slots. Note that the recording track’s own
output will be suppressed while resampling is taking place, and will not be included in the recording.

Samples created by resampling will be stored in with the current Set’s Project folder, under Samples/
Recorded. Until the Set is saved, they remain at the location specified by the Temporary Folder.

17.5 Internal Routings

Live’s mixer and external routing devices allow for inter-track routings. These routings, albeit
potentially confusing, enable many valuable creative and technical options. Via the mixer, inter-track
routing can work two ways:

1.

2.

Track A is set up to send its output signal to Track B. This is possible because every track that
can receive an output signal of the appropriate type from Track A shows up in its Output Type
chooser.
Track B is set up to receive its input signal from Track A. This works because every track that
delivers a signal of the appropriate type appears in Track B’s Input Type chooser.

Two Ways to Route Track A into Track B.

Both approaches result in Track A’s output being fed into Track B. Approach 1 leaves Track B’s in/out
settings alone, and we can, at any time, add more tracks that feed their output into Track B. This is the
method of choice for “many-to-one“ routings such as submixes or several MIDI tracks playing the
same instrument. In this scenario, soloing Track B will still allow you to hear the output of the tracks that
are feeding it. Also, you can still solo Track A and hear its output signal. In this case, all other tracks
are muted, including those that might also feed into Track B. Technically, what you hear is the output of
Track B, with everything except Track A’s signal removed.

Approach 2, on the other hand, leaves Track A unaffected except for Track B tapping its output. We
can easily add more tracks like Track B that all tap Track A’s output. Instrument layering is a good
example of such a “one-to-many“ routing setup.

17.5.1 Internal Routing Points

Signals travel from Live’s tracks into their respective device chains and then into the track mixer, where
they might become panned or have their levels altered by the tracks’ faders.

Whenever a track’s Audio From input chooser is set to another track (as described in the previous
section’s Approach 2), the signal received can be tapped from one of three different points chosen
from the Input Channel chooser: Pre FX, Post FX or Post Mixer.

Tap Points for Track Routing.

•

•

•

Pre FX taps the signal that is coming directly from a track, before it has been passed on to the
track’s device chains (FX) or mixer. Therefore, changes that are made to the tapped track’s
devices or mixer have no effect on the tapped signal. Soloing a track that taps another track
Pre FX will allow you to hear the tapped track.
Post FX taps the signal at the output of a track’s device chains (FX), but before it has been
passed back to the track mixer. Changes to the tapped track’s devices will therefore alter the
tapped signal, but changes to its mixer settings will not. Soloing a track that taps another track
Post FX will allow you to hear the tapped track.
Post Mixer taps the final output of a track, after it has passed through its device chains and
mixer. Soloing a track that taps another track Post Mixer will not allow you to hear the tapped
track.

17.5.1.1 Routing Points in Racks

Tap Points for Every Chain in a Track.

If a track has one or more Instrument or Effect Racks in its device chain, internal routing points (Pre FX,
Post FX and Post Mixer) will also be available for every chain within the Rack. If a track contains one
or more Drum Racks, internal routing points will be available for any of the Rack’s return chains. Each
Rack will also be listed in the Input Channel chooser:

•

•

•

(Rack Name) | (Chain Name) | Pre FX — The signal will be tapped from the point that it enters
the Rack, before it reaches the chain’s devices.
(Rack Name) | (Chain Name) | Post FX — The signal will be tapped from the end of the chain,
but before it passes to the chain’s mixer.
(Rack Name) | (Chain Name) | Post Mixer — The signal will be tapped from the output of the
chain’s mixer, just before the point where all of the chains in the Rack are summed together to
create the Rack’s output.

Soloing a track that taps a Chain at any of these points will still allow you to hear the output at that
point.

17.5.2 Making Use of Internal Routing

This section presents several internal routing examples in more detail.

17.5.2.1 Post-Effects Recording

Let’s say that you are feeding a guitar into Live, building up a song track by track, overlaying take
onto take. It is certainly powerful to have a separate effects chain per track for applying different
effects to different takes — after the fact. You might, however, want to run the guitar signal through
effects (a noise gate or an amp model, for instance) before the recording stage, and record the post-
effects signal.

An Example Setup for Post-Effects Recording.

This is easily accomplished by devoting a special audio track for processing and monitoring the
incoming guitar signal. We call this track “Guitar“ and drag the desired effects into its device chain.
We do not record directly into the Guitar track; instead we create a couple more tracks to use for
recording. Those tracks are all set up to receive their input Post FX from the Guitar track. Note that we
could also tap the Guitar track Post Mixer if we wished to record any level or panning from it.

As for monitoring, we set the Guitar track’s Monitor radio button to In, because we always want to
listen to our guitar through this track, no matter what else is going on in Live. The other tracks’ Monitor
radio buttons are set to Off.

17.5.2.2 Recording MIDI as Audio

When working with MIDI and complex software instruments, it is sometimes more useful to record the
resulting audio than the incoming MIDI. A single MIDI note can prompt, for example, Native
Instruments’ Absynth to produce something that sounds more like a piece of music than a single tone.
This output lends itself more to representation as an audio waveform than a single note in a MIDI clip,
particularly when comparing the editing options.

Recording the Output of a Complex Instrument in Audio Tracks.

A setup similar to the one described above accomplishes the task. We have one MIDI track hosting
the virtual instrument, and we use an additional audio track to record the audio result as the instrument
is played.

17.5.2.3 Creating Submixes

Submixing the Individual Drums of a Drum Kit.

Suppose we have the individual drums of a drum kit coming in on separate tracks for multitrack
recording. In the mix, we can easily change the volumes of the individual drums, but adjusting the
volume of the entire drum kit against the rest of the music is less convenient. Therefore, we add a new
audio track to submix the drums. The individual drum tracks are all set to output to the submix track,
which outputs to the Main track. The submix track gives us a handy volume control for the entire drum
kit.

Alternatively, you could combine the separate drum tracks into a Group Track for even more flexibility.
This automatically creates the necessary output routings and also allows you to hide or show the
component tracks.

Submixing by Setting a Track’s Output Type to Sends Only.

A third possibility is to use Live’s return tracks for submixing. This is done by selecting the Sends Only
option in a track’s Output Type, then turning up a Send control as desired. The corresponding return
track will then act as a submixer channel.

17.5.2.4 Several MIDI Tracks Playing the Same Instrument

Consider a MIDI track containing a virtual instrument — a Simpler playing a pad sound, for example.
We have already recorded MIDI clips into this track when we realize that we would like to add an
independent, parallel take for the same instrument. So we add another MIDI track. We could now
drag another Simpler into the new track, but we would really like to reuse the Simpler from the pad
track, so that changing the pad’s sound affects the notes from both tracks.

Feeding an Additional MIDI Track Into an Existing MIDI Track to Reuse its Instrument.

This is accomplished by setting the new MIDI track’s Output Type chooser to the pad track. Note that
the Output Channel chooser now offers a selection of destinations: We can either feed the new track’s
output into the input of the pad track, or we can directly address the Simpler. The “Track In“ option in
the Output Channel represents the pad track’s input signal (the signal to be recorded), which is not
what we want. We instead select “Warm Bubbly Pad“ to send the new track’s MIDI directly to the
Simpler, bypassing the recording and monitoring stage. With this setup, we can choose to record new
takes on either track and they will all play the same pad sound.

The Instrument Has Been Isolated in a Dedicated Track.

We might be bothered by the fact that muting the pad track (by turning off its Activator switch) also
mutes the other MIDI track. To be precise, the other track keeps playing, but its MIDI is played by an
instrument that is out of the mix. This can be easily remedied by cutting the clips from the pad track and
pasting them into a third track that can be independently muted (and that can hold its own MIDI
effects). The original pad track now acts as a mere instrument container. As we are not recording new
clips into this track, we can set its Input Type chooser to “No Input,“ which makes its Arm button
disappear and helps to avoid confusion when the mixer’s In/Out section is hidden.

17.5.2.5 Tapping Individual Outs From an Instrument

Some software instruments, like Live’s Impulse percussion sampler, offer multiple audio outputs for the
signals they produce. By default, Impulse mixes the output of its eight sample slots internally and
delivers the mix at the instrument’s audio out. Any audio effects following Impulse in the same track
process the composite signal. Sometimes it is desirable to take an individual drum sound out of the mix
for individual effects processing and mixing. This is possible because Impulse offers its sample slots as
audio sources to other tracks.

Using Impulse’s Individual Outs to Separately Process Sample Slots.

We simply create an audio track and select from its Input Type chooser the track with the Impulse. The
Input Channel chooser now offers, in addition to Pre FX, Post FX and Post Mixer, Impulse’s eight
individual outputs, labeled according to the sample used in each slot. Notice that routing an individual
output from Impulse into another track automatically takes this signal out of Impulse’s own internal mix.
This convenience is not standard behavior of most plug-in instruments, however. Soloing a track that
taps one of Impulse’s sample slots will still allow you to hear the output of that slot.

17.5.2.6 Using Multi-Timbral Plug-In Instruments

Many plug-in instruments support multi-timbral operation. A multi-timbral instrument is like several
instruments in one, with each component “part“ (or whatever term the manufacturer uses) receiving
MIDI on a separate MIDI channel. Usually, the multi-timbral instrument offers individual outputs so that
the parts can be separately routed into the mixer. Or, the instrument might offer a submixer of its own.

Tracks Feeding MIDI to and Tapping Audio From the Parts of a Multi-Timbral Instrument.

Sending MIDI from the mixer to a multi-timbral instrument is a variation of a case described above.
One MIDI track hosts the multi-timbral instrument, and additional MIDI tracks are used to feed its
individual parts. Each additional MIDI track has its Output Type chooser pointed to the track that
contains the instrument, and its Output Channel chooser referencing the target MIDI channel.
Additional audio tracks can then be used to tap the instrument’s individual outputs, as described
earlier.

It is also possible to use the External Instrument device to route MIDI to (and audio from) the
secondary outputs on multi-timbral plug-ins. This scenario eliminates the need to create an additional
audio track for each tapped output:

1.
2.
3.

4.
5.

Insert the multi-timbral instrument on a MIDI track.
Insert an External Instrument device on another MIDI track.
Select the track that contains the instrument in the first MIDI To chooser on the External
Instrument device.
Select the MIDI channel to route to in the second chooser on the External Instrument device.
From the External Instrument’s Audio From chooser, select a secondary output on the instrument
to which you are sending MIDI.

Repeat steps 2-5 to feed and tap additional components of your multi-timbral instrument. You could
also put the entire system of External Instrument devices into a single track, by placing each one in a
Rack’s device chain.

Note that the main outputs of the multi-timbral instrument will still output to the track that contains the
instrument — only auxiliary outputs are available to the External Instrument device.

17.5.2.7 Feeding Sidechain Inputs

Some effects have so-called “sidechain inputs.“ A vocoder, for instance, imposes spectral
characteristics taken from one signal (say, spoken word) onto another signal, for instance a string
pad. The vocoder is inserted as an audio effect into the string track. It has a sidechain input for the
speech signal, which has to be delivered from another track. So, we create an additional audio track
named “Speech“ and set its Output Type chooser to the “Strings“ track. From the Output Channel
chooser, we select the vocoder’s sidechain input.

Some vocoder plug-ins include a built-in synthesizer to generate the “carrier“ signal. In this case, the
only difference from the above procedure is that the vocoder instrument is dragged into a MIDI track.
Feeding the sidechain audio input works as described above.

A number of Live’s built-in devices have their own sidechain controls with integrated routing choosers
that match those found in tracks. Thus when using these devices, it is not necessary to follow the above
procedure — you can simply select the sidechain source from within the device itself.

17.5.2.8 Layering Instruments

Suppose that we have a MIDI track containing an instrument playing a string sound, which we would
like to augment by adding a brass sound playing the same notes. This can be easily done by adding
a MIDI track that contains an instrument playing the brass sound and setting its Input Type chooser to
tap the string track’s Post FX signal.

Using an Auxiliary MIDI Track to Layer Instruments.

Perhaps you wonder why this works, given that the string track’s output is audio and not MIDI. When
routing MIDI in from another track, we are tapping the MIDI at the latest possible stage, which is after
any MIDI Effects, and just before the instrument.

18. Mixing

18.1 The Live Mixer

Live includes a mixer section that is accessible from both Session and Arrangement View:

The Arrangement View Mixer.

It is also possible to access mixer features in an individual track in Arrangement View using the Track
Controls section.

The Arrangement View Track Controls.

In Session View, the mixer section appears below the track’s scenes.

The Session View Mixer.

You can use the mixer view control at the bottom right corner of Live’s window to show or hide the
mixer.

The Mixer View Control.

The drop-down menu toggle next to the mixer view control can be used to show or hide mixer
components.

The Mixer View Control’s Options Menu.

Let’s look at the mixer controls:

The Mixer Controls.

1.

2.

The Meter shows both peak and RMS output levels for the track. While monitoring, however, it
shows peak and RMS input levels. Peak meters show sudden changes in level, while RMS
meters give a better impression of perceived loudness.
The Volume control adjusts the track’s output level. With multiple tracks selected, adjusting the
volume of one of them will adjust the others as well.

3.

4.

5.
