---
id: 06
title: ", 7 , 8 , 9 , and 0 (Mac)"
chapter: 06
---
# 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , and 0 (Mac)

When the Permanent Scrub Areas preference is off, you can still scrub by Shift -clicking anywhere
in the scrub area or in the beat-time ruler.

8.9 Looping Clips

To have the clip play as a (potentially infinite) loop, turn on the the Clip Loop toggle. For audio clips,
the Warp switch must be activated before the Loop switch is accessible, as unwarped audio clips
cannot be looped.

When the Clip Loop toggle is on, the clip will play as a loop defined by the loop region settings.

In the Clip View editor, the loop region is represented by the loop brace. You can click and drag on
the loop start and end markers to change the position and length of the loop brace.

The Loop Brace.

To move the loop brace to a different position, click and drag it with the mouse. You can also change
the loop brace position with the following keyboard shortcuts:

•
•
•

•

The left and right arrow keys nudge the loop brace to the left/right by the current grid setting.
The up and down arrow keys shift the loop brace left/right in steps the size of its length.
Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) with the left or right arrow key shortens or lengthens the loop
brace by the current grid setting.
Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) with the up or down arrow key doubles or halves the loop length.

You can quickly duplicate the loop’s length and its contents via the Edit menu’s Duplicate Loop
command. In MIDI clips, any notes to the right of the loop will be moved, so that they maintain their
position relative to the end of the loop.

Regardless of the position of the loop brace, clip will begin playing at the start marker position, which
means you can set up the clip to run into a loop.

Setting the Clip to Run Into a Loop.

8.10 Clip View Sample Details

When working with audio clips, the Sample Editor header displays the name of the loaded sample, its
sample rate, bit depth, and channel count.

The Sample Properties in the Sample Editor Header.

When multiple audio clips are selected, the sample properties for all samples will be displayed. If a
value is not the same for all samples, an asterisk is displayed instead. You will also see the total
number of samples selected.

Clicking on the sample’s name from Clip View will open the sample file in the browser. You can also
use the Show in Browser command in the Sample Editor’s context menu to reveal the file in the
browser.

8.11 Cropping Clips

You can crop clips to keep only the parts you want, removing any unnecessary content. For example,
you might want to use only a short portion of a longer sample in an audio clip, or might want to
remove some of the MIDI notes that you captured.

When working with unlooped audio clips, you can use the start and end marker to set a region for
cropping. You can then use the Crop Clip Sample command in the Sample Editor’s context menu to
create a new, shorter sample whose length is limited to the region between the start and end marker.
In looped clips, the beginning of the cropping region is set by either the start marker or loop start
marker — whichever comes first — and the end of the region is set by the loop end marker.

You can also crop the sample to the current time selection with the Crop Clip Sample to Time Selection
command, which appears in the context menu whenever you make a time selection in the clip.

Similarly to the Reverse function, cropping the sample creates a new sample by saving a portion of
the longer sample. The new sample can be found, after saving the Live Set, in the Set’s Project folder,
under Samples/Processed/Crop. Until the Set is saved, the new sample remains at the location
specified by the Temporary Folder.

Both the Crop Clip Sample and Crop Clip Sample to Time Selection command can be triggered with
the Ctrl

J (Mac) keyboard shortcut.

J (Win) / Cmd

Shift

Shift

Cropping MIDI clips works in the same way as cropping audio clips, except the names of commands
are slightly different: Crop Clip is used when cropping to the region between start and end marker (in
unlooped clips) or the start/loop start marker and loop end marker (in looped clips), while cropping
to time selection is triggered by the Crop Clip to Time Selection command.

8.12 Replacing and Editing the Sample

To replace the sample referenced by the clip with a different one, drop the new sample directly from
the browser into the Clip View. Alternatively, you can select a sample in the browser and double-click
on it or press Enter to load the sample on the currently selected clip.

When you replace the sample, clip settings like pitch and volume will be retained. The Warp Markers
will be retained only if the new sample has the exact same length as the old sample.

You can search for samples similar to the currently loaded sample by selecting the Show Similar Files
command from the Sample Editor’s context menu.

The Sample Editor’s context menu also includes the Manage Sample File command. This opens the
File Manager for the current Set with the sample referenced by the clip selected. From there, you can

replace and destructively edit the sample, in such a way that all clips and instruments referencing the
sample will be affected.

8.13 Editing Clip Properties for Multiple Clips

You can edit the Clip View properties of multiple clips at the same time. To create a multi-clip selection,
click and drag from an empty clip slot to highlight the clips, or select one clip and use the Ctrl
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) or Shift modifiers to add to your selection. The properties available in the
Clip View for a multi-clip selection depend on the contents of the clips; generally only properties
which the clips have in common are shown.

Controls such as sliders and knobs behave slightly differently when multiple clips are selected. If the
clips in the selection have differing values for any particular parameter (clip transposition, for
example), the range of these values will be displayed and can be adjusted with the control. Dragging
the knob or slider to its absolute maximum or minimum value will make the clips’ settings thereafter
identical, adjustable as a single value.

8.14 Clip Defaults and Update Rate

You can change the rate at which Live applies your Clip View settings to a running clip. Clip View
changes will be quantized by the rate selected from the Clip Update Rate chooser in the Record,
Warp & Launch Settings. Certain clip settings, such as Launch Mode and Warp Mode, can be set up
as defaults for all new clips. This is also done in the Record, Warp & Launch Settings.

The Record, Warp, and Launch Options in Live’s Settings.

9. Audio Clips, Tempo, and Warping

Audio in Live can be creatively manipulated and stretched in various ways. The process of adjusting
the timing and rhythm of audio clips is referred to as warping. Warping lets you treat audio as though
it were elastic, enabling seamless time-stretching and tempo synchronization.

Audio clips can be warped using various Warp Modes, allowing you to change the timing of a clip
without altering its pitch, or vice versa. Warping can also be used to mimic the behavior of analog
tape by adjusting both the pitch and timing simultaneously. Additionally, warping lets you easily mix
and match audio clips with varying BPMs.

9.1 Tempo

9.1.1 Setting the Tempo

The Control Bar’s Tempo Field.

The Control Bar’s tempo field lets you adjust the playback tempo of your Live Set. You can even
automate the tempo to create smooth or sudden tempo changes along the song timeline.

The tempo field displays values for both the coarse tempo in BPM and the fine tempo in hundredths of
a BPM. These values can be key or MIDI mapped individually, which is useful for precise tempo
changes during live performances.

Additionally, there are several ways to sync the tempo between Live and external sources: you can set
up hardware to follow along with Live’s tempo, or vice versa, using MIDI Clock or Link, or set up Live’s
tempo to sync with an external audio source using Tempo Follower. Please refer to the Synchronizing
with Link, Tempo Follower, and MIDI chapter for more details.

9.1.2 Tapping the Tempo

The Tap Button.

Apart from setting a tempo using numeric values, you can also use the Tap Tempo button to set the
tempo with mouse clicks or computer key taps.

You can click the Tap Tempo button once every beat to have the tempo of the Live Set follow the
tempo of your clicking.

To use a computer key to set the tempo instead of clicks, you can map a key to the Tap Tempo button
using Key Map Mode:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Click the Key switch in the Control Bar to enable Key Map Mode.
Select the Tap Tempo button.
Press the key on your keyboard that you want to use for tapping.
Click the Key switch again to leave Key Map Mode.

You can now use the mapped key for tapping the tempo.

The Key Map Mode Switch.

Alternatively, you can assign the Tap Tempo button to a MIDI note or controller, such as a footswitch
pedal, using MIDI Map Mode.

Live will respond to tap tempo changes immediately; however, the more you tap, the more accurate
the detected tempo result will be.

If the Start Playback with Tap Tempo option is enabled in the Record, Warp & Launch Settings, you
can also use tapping to trigger playback. When using a 4/4 time signature, it takes four taps to start
song playback at the tapped tempo.

When using tapping to start transport, the playback position of any apps that are connected via Link
will be synced automatically. This ensures that those apps remain tempo-synced and correctly aligned
within the current musical phrase.

9.1.3 Nudging the Tempo

The Phase Nudge Up/Down Buttons.

While Live can be easily synchronized via Link or to external MIDI devices, you may sometimes need
to align a Set with external sources that aren’t locked to a single tempo, such as live musicians or
turntables. As long as your Set’s tempo roughly matches the external source, you can use the Phase
Nudge Up/Down buttons to temporarily speed up or slow down Live’s playback to match any tempo
changes. As with the Tap Tempo button, the Phase Nudge buttons can be key or MIDI mapped for
hands-on control.

9.1.4 Clip Tempo Followers and Leaders

By default, warped clips follow the Set’s tempo; however, clips in the Arrangement View can be set as
tempo leaders via the Lead/Follow toggle in the Clip View’s Audio Utilities panel.

Warped Clips Follow the Set’s Tempo by Default.

When a clip is set to Lead, the Set plays back at the tempo determined by the clip’s Warp Markers.
This lets you sync the Set to the tempo of leader clips, which will therefore be played as if they were
unwarped. Additionally, the tempo field in the Control Bar is deactivated.

Switch the Lead/Follow Toggle to Lead to Play the Clip’s Original Tempo.

Any number of clips can be set as tempo leaders, but only one clip at a time can actually determine
the tempo. When multiple clips on different tracks are leaders, the tempo of the currently playing clip
on the bottom-most track will take precedence.

Tempo automation is automatically created to track the changes between the clips’ tempos and the
Set’s tempo. This automation is visible in the Main track but is not editable. When leader clips are
rearranged in the Arrangement, the resulting automation is also moved. To keep and edit the
automation changes, you can use the Unfollow Tempo Automation option in the tempo field’s context
menu. This will switch all leader clips to followers, and the automation in the Main track will become
editable.

Unfollow the Tempo Automation to Make It Editable.

Automation from clip tempo leaders will override the tempo from any audio input being synced via
Tempo Follower.

Note that when Live’s EXT switch is enabled, the Lead/Follow toggle is deactivated.

9.2 Warping

Live’s ability to play any sample in sync with a chosen tempo is an important and useful feature.
Warping allows for seamless beat matching, rhythmic experimentation, and sound design, as well as
track synchronization during playback and live performances.

The warping properties for audio clips are located in the Clip View’s Audio Utilities panel. You can
double-click on an audio clip in the Session or Arrangement View to open the Clip View.

The Audio Tab’s Warping Controls.

The Warp switch toggles warping on or off for an audio clip.

When the Warp switch is off, the sample plays at its original tempo, unaffected by the Set’s current
tempo. This is useful for non-rhythmic samples, such as percussion one shots, textures, sound effects,
and spoken word, for example.

You can turn the Warp switch on to synchronize rhythmically structured samples, such as loops or
entire songs, with the Set’s tempo.

9.2.1 Warping Options in Settings

In addition to using the Warp switch to enable warping in individual clips, you can also configure the
warping behavior for samples when they are loaded via the Record, Warp & Launch Settings. When
a sample is first imported, Live will decide whether it is short or long, and will then apply one of the
options described below.

The Loop/Warp Short Samples option lets you choose the default warping state for short samples:

•
•
•
•

Unwarped One Shot - Samples will not be warped when loaded.
Warped One Shot - Samples will be warped based on the default Warp Mode but not looped.
Warped Loop - Samples will be warped and looped.
Auto - Live will automatically apply one of the above options based on what would work best
for the specific sample. This option is selected by default.

The Auto-Warp Long Samples option you choose whether long samples are automatically warped
when loaded or not. This option is enabled by default. A Warp Marker will be added to the first beat
for each bar once the sample is auto-warped. If this option is switched off, long samples will be
unwarped when they are added to tracks.

The Default Warp Mode option lets you set which Warp Mode is automatically applied to samples
when they are warped. The Warp Mode defines the algorithm used for time-stretching the audio,
which affects the clip’s sound. Beats mode is initially set as the default Warp Mode.

9.2.2 Importing Samples

You can drag samples into a Set from folders on your computer, or you can use the Import Audio
File… command in the Create menu when an audio track is selected to import MP3, AAC, Ogg
Vorbis, Ogg FLAC, or FLAC files. When using this command, files are added at the insert marker in the
Arrangement View or inserted into the selected clip slot in the Session View.

When a file is imported into Live for the first time, it is analyzed and cannot be played or edited until
the analysis process is complete. Once analyzed, the sample will be accessible in the Sample Editor,
and in most cases, synced with the Set’s tempo.

9.2.3 Warp Markers

Warp Markers let you lock a specific point in a sample, such as a transient, to a particular place in the
timeline. You can use markers to create a realistic map of the audio’s timing or to alter its rhythm.
When a sample is first imported, some initial Warp Markers are populated; however, you can
manually add any number of markers as needed.

Double-click anywhere in the upper half of the Sample Editor to add a Warp Marker at that location.
I (Mac), which will place a Warp Marker
You can also use the shortcut Ctrl
at the insert marker. Markers can be moved with the arrow keys or dragged to different points in time
as needed.

I (Win) / Cmd

Warp Markers in the Sample Editor.

When a Warp Marker is selected, you can hold Shift to drag and move the waveform; this lets you
finely adjust the starting point of the audio under the marker.

To delete Warp Markers you can double-click them, or select the corresponding time in the Sample
Editor and press the Backspace (Win) or Delete (Mac) key.

If you want the Sample Editor to scroll during playback while you work with clips, you can enable the
Follow switch in the Control Bar. Note that Follow will pause if you make an edit in the Sample Editor.
You can launch playback or click in the Arrangement or clip scrub area to restart Follow.

The Follow Switch in the Control Bar.

9.2.3.1 Transients and Pseudo-Warp Markers

When you first load a sample into a track, Live automatically analyzes the audio and finds its
transients. These are amplitude peaks that indicate where notes or beats begin. Transients are usually
good places to put Warp Markers.

Transients are represented by small gray markers at the top of the Sample Editor.

Transient Markers in the Sample Editor.

You can manually create or delete transients via the corresponding commands in the Create menu, or
by using the shortcuts Ctrl
Backspace (Win) / Cmd
the Reset Transients option in the Sample Editor’s context menu.

Delete (Mac). To remove all manually created transients, use

I (Mac) and Ctrl

I (Win) / Cmd

Shift

Shift

Shift

Shift

To create Warp Markers for all transients in a time selection, use the Insert Warp Markers command in
the Create menu or use the shortcut Ctrl
within the selected area, Warp Markers will be created at the start and end of the selection.

I (Mac). If there are no transients

I (Win) / Cmd

Pseudo-Warp Markers appear when you hover over transient markers. They look like regular Warp
Markers but are gray instead of yellow. Double-clicking or dragging a pseudo-marker turns it into an
actual Warp Marker. If there are no Warp Markers after the newly created marker, the clip’s tempo
will also change. Holding the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier while creating a Warp Marker
from a pseudo-marker also creates Warp Markers at the adjacent transients. You can hold Shift
and drag a pseudo-marker to move the transient to a new location in the Sample Editor.

9.2.3.2 Saving Warp Markers with a Sample File

Warp Markers are automatically saved with the Live Set; however, you can also save them with the
sample file itself, so that they appear in the Sample Editor anytime you drag the file into a track. To do
so, click the Save button in the clip’s title bar. Note that it is only possible to save default clip settings
for your own samples, and not for any of Live’s Core Library or Pack content.

When a sample is saved with Warp Markers, Auto-Warp will have no effect. However, you can still
manually initiate auto-warping using any of the Warp From… context menu options.

9.2.4 Warping Short Samples

The following sections illustrate how warping can be used to sync different kinds of short samples with
a Set’s tempo. These scenarios assume that the Loop/Warp Short Samples option in the Record,
Warp & Launch Settings is enabled so that newly added samples are automatically warped when
added to a Set, which is the default behavior.

9.2.4.1 Even-Length Loops

When you import a sample, Live assumes that it contains a well-cut musical loop of 1, 2, 4, 8, or 16
bars in length, and sets the tempo accordingly. Additionally, two Warp Markers are created: one at
the start of the sample and one at the end.

A Four-Bar Loop in the Sample Editor.

The sample’s estimated tempo is shown in the BPM field of the Audio Utilities panel. If you know the
exact BPM, you can type it into the field. If you’re not sure of the precise tempo, you can hold Shift
while dragging in the slider to adjust the BPM in fine increments. You can also hold Shift and drag
from the clip’s edge in Arrangement View to stretch or compress the clip’s tempo.

The BPM Field in the Audio Utilities Panel.

Sometimes the estimation of the original tempo is incorrect, and the BPM field may show a tempo that
is either twice as fast or half as slow. You can correct this by using the ×2 and ÷2 buttons to double or
halve the tempo, respectively.

9.2.4.2 Odd-Length Loops

Samples that have an odd number of bars will play out of sync as Live will initially assume that the
loop contains an even number of bars due to the default 4/4 time signature setting.

For synced playback, a Warp Marker at the end of the sample needs to be placed at the beginning
of an even bar, for example, bar eight in a nine-bar loop. To fix this, simply add a marker to the
correct bar.

Additionally, Live may assume that some loops with odd bars are longer or shorter than they actually
are, e.g., a nine-bar loop may be mistaken for an eight-bar loop. In this case, the last bar may not be
visible initially. To fix this, you can drag a Warp Marker at the end of the sample toward the right until
the eighth bar becomes visible.

9.2.4.3 Uneven-Length Loops

Samples that have not been edited for seamless looping or have no distinct beat pattern will also play
out of sync.

You can correct this by moving the insert marker to the first downbeat in the sample and then using the
Set 1.1.1 Here context menu option to place a Warp Marker there.

Use the Set 1.1.1 Here Command to Place the First Warp Marker.

Once the first Warp Marker is set, you can then use the Warp From Here context menu option. To
eliminate extra silence at the end of the loop, you can place a Warp Marker before the silent portion
of the sample.

9.2.4.4 Multi-Clip Warping

When you select multiple clips that are of the same length and then add or adjust Warp Markers to
one of them, those changes will automatically apply to all the selected clips. This feature is particularly
useful when you have several clips with the same rhythm and want to alter the timing uniformly. For
example, if you have a recorded multitrack performance and want to correct any timing issues across
all tracks.

9.2.5 Auto-Warping Long Samples

The following section illustrates how auto-warping can be used to sync longer samples or entire songs
with a Set’s tempo. These scenarios assume that the Auto-Warp Long Samples option in the Record,

Warp & Launch Settings is enabled so that newly added samples are automatically warped when
added to a Set, which is the default behavior.

Auto-Warp Results in the Sample Editor.

9.2.5.1 Adjusting Auto-Warp Results

The Auto-Warp algorithm usually estimates the audio clip’s tempo correctly, ensuring that it syncs
perfectly with the Set’s tempo. However, you can adjust the auto-warped results manually if they are
not what you expected.

When adjusting Warp Markers for longer samples, we suggest activating the metronome in the
Control Bar, which can provide a steady tempo reference.

The Metronome Switch.

In some cases Auto-Warp guesses the tempo correctly but gets the downbeat wrong. To fix this, you
can use one of the following methods:

•

•

•

Hold Shift while dragging from a Warp Marker to adjust the position of the waveform under
the marker.
Move the insert marker to the downbeat and use the context menu’s Set 1.1.1 Here command to
move the start marker to that location.
Zoom in and create a Warp Marker on the downbeat, then drag the marker to the beginning of
the first bar in the timeline.

Dragging a Warp Marker to Set the Start Position.

If you have a sample that has been edited for seamless looping, you can easily adjust the Auto-Warp
results using the Warp Sample as… command in the Sample Editor’s context menu. The command will
display a suggested loop length that fits the Set’s tempo.

The Warp Sample As… Context Menu Option.

You can also use Auto-Warp for a specific section of a sample. For example, you can select and warp
a breakbeat from a longer song. To do so, select time in the Sample Editor by dragging over the
portion of the sample you want to isolate. Then use the Warp Selection as… command in the context
menu. Auto-Warp sets what it assumes is the most fitting loop length, adds start and end loop markers
to match, and then warps the selection so that it fills the loop.

Warping a Selected Portion of a Sample.

For certain samples, you may want more precise control of the Auto-Warp results. The best way to go
about this is to warp the audio in sections, working from left to right. You can set Warp Markers at the
start and end of each correctly warped section to pin them into place. Various shortcuts for the
Sample Editor can help make this process a bit faster. For example, you can hold down the Ctrl
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier to select multiple Warp Markers and then move them together.

In the Sample Editor’s context menu, there are several Warp From Here… commands that provide
multiple ways of resetting Warp Markers to the right of a grid division or Warp Marker, leaving any
markers to the left unchanged. These commands can be used at any point in the timeline, including at
the start marker.

•

•

•

•

Warp From Here runs the Auto-Warp algorithm for the audio to the right of the selected marker.
If no marker is selected, one will be added at the specified point on the grid.
Warp From Here (Start At …) uses the tempo of the Set as a baseline for auto-warping. If you
want to first update the Set’s tempo to match the clip’s BPM, deactivate warping for the clip so
that it plays back at its original speed. Then use the Tap Tempo button in the Control Bar to
match the tempo of the clip to the Set. After setting the tempo, re-enable warping for the clip
and use the Warp From Here (Start At …) command to use your tapped tempo as a reference.
Warp From Here (Straight) works best for samples that have no tempo variations. A single
Warp Marker will be set at the starting point based on the estimated original BPM of the
sample.
Warp … BPM From Here will also set a single Warp Marker at the starting point, but in this
case, the clip is assumed to have the same tempo as the Set. This command is useful if you

already know the precise BPM of the sample and can type it into the Control Bar’s tempo field
before warping.

9.2.6 Manipulating Grooves

While Warp Markers can be used to accurately sync the musical timing in a sample, they can also be
used to deliberately alter the rhythm for creative effects.

For example, if you notice that a transient in a percussive sample comes late, simply pin a Warp
Marker to it and then drag the marker to align it with the correct beat. You may want to pin the
adjacent transients as well, to avoid affecting neighboring regions in the sample.

Using Warp Markers to Manipulate the Groove.

Altering a sample’s natural rhythm using Warp Markers is an interesting creative technique,
particularly when used together with grooves.

9.2.7 Quantizing Audio

In addition to using Warp Markers to time-stretch a sample, you can also automatically snap a
waveform to the grid using quantization. Quantization aligns the audio by moving the nearest
transient to the closest grid line.

To quantize audio, click anywhere in the Sample Editor to bring it into focus, and then use the
Quantize command from the Edit menu or the shortcut Ctrl
options align the audio based on the current quantization settings, which can be adjusted via the
Quantize panel.

U (Win) / Cmd

U (Mac). These

The Quantize Panel.

Audio can be quantized to match the current grid size or a specific grid division, including triplets. To
achieve a more subtle result, use the Amount control to adjust the level of applied quantization. This
control shifts the Warp Markers by a percentage of the chosen quantization value.

9.3 Warp Modes

Live’s Warp Modes use different granular synthesis techniques to manipulate time by repeating or
omitting segments of the audio; these segments are referred to as grains. Each Warp Mode has a
specific way of selecting, overlapping, and crossfading grains, which affects how the audio is
stretched or compressed. Because of this, some Warp Modes are best suited for certain kinds of audio
material, depending on the original tonal characteristics.

While warping can be used for precise time-stretching, there are also many creative ways to alter a
sample’s rhythm for more experimental results.

9.3.1 Beats Mode

Beats mode works best for audio that has a dominant rhythm, such as drum loops and most electronic
dance music. In this mode, the granulation process is optimized to preserve the transients in the audio.

The Preserve control lets you preserve divisions in the sample; these divisions define the boundaries
between portions of audio. When warping percussive samples, choose Transients for the most
accurate results. This setting uses the positions of the audio’s transients to determine the warping
behavior. To preserve specific beat divisions regardless of where the transients are located, choose

one of the grid division options. For some interesting rhythmic artifacts, try using large grid divisions in
conjunction with pitch transposition.

The Transient Loop Mode chooser sets the looping properties for the audio’s transients:

Loop Off — Each segment of audio between transients plays to its end and then stops. Any

remaining time between the end of a segment and the next transient will be silent.

Loop Forward — Each segment of audio between transients plays to its end, then playback jumps

to a zero-crossing near the middle of the segment and continues looping until the next transient
occurs.

Loop Back-and-Forth — Each segment of audio between transients plays to its end, then playback
reverses until it reaches a zero-crossing near the middle of the segment, and proceeds again towards
the end of the segment. This pattern continues until the next transient occurs. When combined with
preserved transients, this mode can often result in a high-quality sound, especially at slower tempos.

The Transient Envelope control determines the volume fade between each audio segment. When set to
100, no fade is applied, while at 0, longer fades are added, causing each segment to decay very
quickly. Higher envelope times can help to smooth out any clicks between segments; lower envelope
times can be used to create rhythmic gating effects.

9.3.2 Tones Mode

Tones mode is useful for stretching audio that has a distinct pitch, such as vocals, monophonic
instruments, and basslines.

Grain Size lets you roughly adjust the average size of the grains used. The actual grain size is
determined by the clarity of pitch changes in the audio. Small grain sizes work best for audio that has
distinct pitch variations. Using larger grain sizes can help prevent unwanted noise but may also cause
audible artifacts.

9.3.3 Texture Mode

Texture mode works well for sounds that don’t have a clear melody or pitch, such as polyphonic
orchestral music, atmospheric pads, noise, or drones. It’s also great for sound design and
experimental audio manipulation.

The Grain Size control determines the grain size used, but unlike in Tones mode, the audio’s tonal
characteristics are not taken into consideration when the grain size is adjusted.

Fluctuation introduces randomness into how the sample is processed. Higher values result in more
random variation.

9.3.4 Re-Pitch Mode

Re-Pitch mode can be used to adjust the sample’s playback rate. This lets you change the pitch of the
sample while modifying its tempo, similar to how DJs change the playback speed on turntables, or
how old samplers change the pitch of samples when sped up or slowed down. For example, if you
double the speed, the pitch goes up by an octave.

In this mode, the sample’s transposition controls are deactivated because changing the playback
speed directly affects the pitch.

9.3.5 Complex and Complex Pro Mode

Complex mode is useful for warping audio that contains a combination of beats, melodies, and
textures, such as entire songs.

Complex Pro mode uses a variation of the algorithm found in Complex mode, and may offer higher
quality results. Like Complex mode, Complex Pro works especially well with polyphonic textures or full
songs.

The Formants control determines how the sample’s formants (the resonance frequencies of the tone)
are affected when the pitch is transposed. At 100%, the original formants will be preserved, even if
the pitch is changed significantly. This helps maintain the original tonal quality. Note that this control
has no effect if the sample’s transposition is not changed.

The Envelope control also influences the overall tonal quality. The default setting is 128, which should
work well for most samples. For high-pitched samples, lower Envelope values may provide better
results, while low-pitched samples may sound better with higher values.

Depending on your setup, the Complex and Complex Pro modes may be more CPU-intensive than the
other Warp Modes. To save CPU resources you can freeze or resample tracks that use these modes.

10. Editing MIDI

A MIDI clip in Live contains notes and controller data for playing a MIDI instrument. This instrument
can be a virtual instrument in a MIDI track’s device chain or an external synth fed via the track’s output
routing. The MIDI clip provides the device with a musical score to play, specifying note pitch, length,
position and dynamics (referred to as velocity in the MIDI lexicon). MIDI clips are composed in Live’s
MIDI Note Editor and edited using various utilities available in Clip View’s panels, as well as the
Velocity and Chance Editors.

10.1 The MIDI Note Editor Layout

The MIDI Note Editor allows you to add, move and adjust MIDI notes to make your musical ideas
come to life.

To view the MIDI Note Editor, first open the Clip View by double-clicking on a clip or by using the
Ctrl

3 (Mac) keyboard shortcut.

3 (Win) / Cmd

Option

Alt

The Clip View has three editor view modes: the MIDI Note Editor, described in this chapter, as well as
the Envelopes Editor and the MPE Editor, detailed in separate chapters. These editor view modes are
accessible through tabs in the Clip View header. Select the Notes tab to open the MIDI Note Editor.

The MIDI Note Editor Layout.

1.

Use the tabs in the Clip View header to access different editor view modes. Make sure that the
Notes tab is selected to add and manipulate MIDI notes.

2.

You can add MIDI notes directly in the MIDI Note Editor’s grid.

3.

The MIDI Note Editor has both vertical and horizontal navigation. Along the horizontal axis lies
a time ruler, which shows note position along a musical timeline. The vertical axis contains the
note ruler, which displays octaves C-2–C8, the subset of pitches used by a loaded tuning
system, or a list of drum pads if a Drum Rack is loaded. The vertical axis also includes a
representation of a piano keyboard (the piano ruler).

Note Scale Position Is Shown Vertically and Beat-Time Horizontally.

4.

On the left side of the Clip View header, you will find options for folding key tracks and scale
highlighting (if a scale is enabled in the MIDI clip), as well as the Find and Select Notes toggle.

5.

If the Find and Select Notes toggle is active, note selection filters appear above the time ruler.

6.

If the Preview switch above the piano ruler is activated, you will hear the sound of the
corresponding pitch/drum pad when you click a piano ruler’s key or when you add or move a
MIDI note in a key track.
