---
id: 28.12.1
title: "Architecture and Interface"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.12.1 Architecture and Interface

It is the vibration from the string which constitutes the main sound production mechanism of the
instrument. The string is set into motion by the action of an exciter which can be a hammer, a pick or a
bow. The frequency of the oscillation is determined by the effective length of the string, which is
controlled by the finger/fret interaction or termination. A damper can be applied to the strings in
order to reduce the decay time of the oscillation. This is the case on a piano, for example, when felt is
applied to the strings by releasing the keys and sustain pedal. The vibration from the string is then
transmitted to the body of the instrument, which can radiate sound efficiently. In some instruments, the
string vibration is transmitted directly to the body through the bridge. In other instruments, such as the
electric guitar, a pickup is used to transmit the string vibration to an amplifier. In addition to these main

sections, a filter section has been included between the string and body sections in order to expand
the sonic possibilities of the instrument.

The Tension interface is divided into two main tabs, which are further divided into sections. The String
tab contains all of the fundamental sound producing components related to the string itself: Exciter,
Damper, String, Vibrato, Termination, Pickup, and Body. The Filter/Global tab contains the Filter
section and the MPE section, as well as controls for global performance parameters. Each section
(with the exception of String and the global Keyboard section) can be enabled or disabled
independently. Turning off a section reduces CPU usage.
