---
id: 28.12.2
title: "String Tab"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.12.2 String Tab

The String tab contains the parameters related to the physical properties of the string itself, as well as
the way in which it’s played.

28.12.2.1 The Exciter Section

Tension’s Exciter Section.

28.12.2.2 Exciter Types

The modeled string can be played using different types of exciters in order to reproduce different
types of instruments and playing techniques.

The Exciter section can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name. With it off, the string can
only be activated by interaction with its damper. If both the Exciter and Damper sections are
deactivated, nothing can set the string in motion — if you find that you’re not producing any sound,
check to see that at least one of these sections is on.

The Exciter Type chooser offers four choices - Bow, Hammer, Hammer (bouncing) and Plectrum.

Bow — this exciter is associated with bowed instruments such as the violin, viola or cello. The bow sets
the string in sustained oscillation. The motion of the bow hair across the string creates friction, causing
the string to alternate between sticking to the hair and breaking free. The frequency of this alternation
between sticking and slipping determines the fundamental pitch. Note that the Damping knob is
unavailable when the Bow exciter is selected.

Hammer — this exciter type simulates the behavior of soft hammers or mallets. Hammer models a
hammer that is located below the string and strikes it once before falling away. This type of
mechanism is found in a piano, for example.

Hammer (bouncing) - this exciter type is similar to Hammer, except that it models a hammer that is
located above the string and is dropped onto it, meaning that it can bounce on the string multiple
times. This playing mode can be found on a hammered dulcimer, for example.

Plectrum — a plectrum or “pick“ is associated with instruments such as guitars and harpsichords. It can
be thought of as an angled object placed under the string that snaps the string into motion.

28.12.2.3 Exciter Parameters

Next to the Exciter Type chooser are five parameter knobs. The first two parameters vary depending
on the chosen Exciter Type, whereas the last three parameters are universal.

Bow Parameters:

•

•

The Force knob adjusts the amount of pressure being applied to the string by the bow. The
sound becomes more “scratchy“ as you increase this value.
The Friction knob adjusts the amount of friction between the bow and the string. Higher values
usually result in a faster attack.

Hammer / Hammer (bouncing) Parameters:

•
•

The Mass knob adjusts the mass of the hammer.
The Stiffness knob adjusts the stiffness of the hammer’s surface area.

Plectrum Parameters:

•

•

The Protrusion knob adjusts how much of the plectrum’s surface area is placed under the string.
Lower values result in a “thinner,“ smaller sound, as there is less mass setting the string into
motion.
The Stiffness knob adjusts the stiffness of the plectrum.

Universal Exciter Parameters:

•
•

•

The Velocity knob adjusts the speed at which the exciter activates the string.
The Position knob specifies the point on the string where the exciter makes contact. At 0%, the
exciter contacts the string at its termination point, while at 50% it activates the string at its
midpoint. When the Fix. Pos switch (described in more detail below) is enabled, however, the
position is not dependent on the length of the string.
The Damping knob adjusts how much of the exciter’s impact force is absorbed back into the
exciter. Note: For the Hammer (bouncing) exciter, this is somewhat analogous to the Stiffness
parameter, but instead of controlling the stiffness of the hammer’s surface it adjusts the stiffness
of the virtual “spring“ that connects the hammer to the mass that powers it. As you increase the
Damping amount, the interaction between the hammer and string will become shorter,
generally resulting in a louder, brighter sound.

The Fix. Pos switch fixes the contact point to a single location, rather than changing as the length of the
string changes. This behavior is similar to that of a guitar, where the picking position is always
basically the same regardless of the notes being played. On a piano, the exciter position is relative —
the hammers normally strike the string at about 1/7th of their length — and so is best modeled with
Fix. Pos turned off.

Finally, the Vel and Key sliders allow you to modulate their behavior based on note velocity or pitch,
respectively.

Please note that the Exciter section’s parameters work closely together to influence the overall
behavior of the instrument. You may find that certain combinations of settings result in no sound at all.

28.12.2.4 The Damper Section

Tension’s Damper Section.

All string instruments employ some type of damping mechanism that mutes the resonating string. In
pianos, this is a felt pad that is applied to the string when the key is released. In instruments such as
guitars and violins, the player damps by stopping the string’s vibration with their fingers. Dampers
regulate the decay of strings but also produce some sound of their own, which is an important
characteristic of a string instrument’s timbre. The Damper section can be toggled on or off via the
switch next to its name.

Although a damper functions to mute the string rather than activate it, it is somewhat analogous to a
hammer, and shares some of the same parameters.

The Mass knob controls how hard the damper’s surface will press against the string. As you increase
the value, the string will mute more quickly.

The stiffness of the damper’s material is adjusted with the Stiffness control. Lower values simulate soft
materials such as felt, while higher values model a metal damper.

Note that very high Mass and Stiffness values can simulate dampers that connect with the string hard
enough to change its effective length, thus causing a change in tuning.

The Velocity control adjusts the speed with which the damper is applied to the string when the key is
released, as well as the speed with which it is lifted from the string when the key is depressed. Be
careful with this parameter — very high Velocity values can cause the damper to hit the string
extremely hard, which can result in a very loud sound on key release. Note that the state of the Gated
switch determines whether or not the Velocity control is enabled. When the Gated switch is turned on,

the damper is applied to the string when the key is released. With Gated off, the damper always
remains on the string, which means that the Velocity control has no effect.

The Position knob serves an analogous function to the control in the Exciter section, but here specifies
the point on the string where the damper makes contact. At 0%, the damper contacts the string at its
termination point, while at 50% it damps the string at its midpoint. The behavior is a bit different if the
Fix. Pos switch is enabled, however. In this case, the contact point is fixed to a single location, rather
than changing as the length of the string changes.

The Mass, Stiffness and Velocity, and Position parameters can be further modulated by note pitch
using the Key sliders below them.

The stiffness of the damper mechanism is adjusted with the Damping knob, which affects the overall
amount of vibration absorbed by the damper. Lower values result in less damping (longer decay
times). But this becomes a bit less predictable as the Damping value goes over 50%. At higher values,
the mechanism becomes so stiff that it bounces against the string. This in turn reduces the overall
amount of time that the damper is in contact with the string, causing an increase in decay time. The
best way to get a sense of how this parameter behaves is to gradually turn up the knob as you
repeatedly strike a single key.

The String Section

Tension’s String Section.

The vibration of the string is the main component of a stringed instrument’s sound. The effective length
of the string is also responsible for the pitch of the sound we hear.

The Decay slider determines how long it takes for the resonating string to decay to silence. Higher
values increase the decay time. The < Key slider next to Decay allows decay time to be modulated by
note pitch.

The Ratio slider sets the ratio of the decay time of the string’s oscillation during note onset and release.
At 0%, the time set by the Decay slider sets the decay time for both the onset and release of the note.
As you increase the Ratio, the release time decreases but the onset decay time stays the same.

The theoretical model of a resonating string is harmonic, meaning that the string’s partials are all exact
multiples of the fundamental frequency. Real-world strings, however, are all more or less inharmonic,
and this increases with the width of the string. The Inharm slider models this behavior, causing upper
partials to become increasingly out of tune as its value increases.

The Damping slider adjusts the amount of high frequency content in the string’s vibration. Higher
values result in more upper partials (less damping). This parameter can be modulated by note pitch
via the < Key slider to its right.

The Vibrato Section

Tension’s Vibrato Section.

The Vibrato section uses an LFO to modulate the string’s pitch. As with all of Tension’s parameters, the
controls in this section can be used to enhance the realism of a stringed instrument model — or to
create something never heard before.

The Vibrato section can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name.

The Delay slider sets how long it will take for the vibrato to start after the note begins, while Attack sets
how long it takes for the vibrato to reach full intensity (as set by the Amount knob).

The two most important parameters in this section are the Rate and Amount sliders. Rate adjusts the
frequency of the pitch variation, while Amount adjusts the intensity (amplitude) of the effect.

The < Mod slider adjusts how much the modulation wheel will affect the vibrato intensity. This control is
relative to the value set by the Amount knob.

The Error slider introduces unpredictability into the vibrato, by introducing random deviation to the
Rate, Amount, Delay and Attack parameters.

28.12.2.5 The Termination Section

Tension’s Termination Section.

The Termination section models the interaction between the fret, finger and string. On a physical
instrument, this interaction is used to change the effective length of the string, which in turn sets the
pitch of the note played.

The Termination section can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name.

The Finger Mass parameter can additionally be modulated by velocity or note pitch, via the Vel and
Key sliders.

The physical parameters of the finger are adjusted with the Finger Mass and Finger Stiff knobs, which
set the force the finger applies to the string and the finger’s stiffness, respectively. The stiffness of the
fret is modeled with the Fret Stiff parameter.

28.12.2.6 The Pickup Section

Tension’s Pickup Section.

The Pickup Section models the effect of an electromagnetic pickup, similar to the type found in an
electric guitar or electric piano. It can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name. The only
control here is the Position slider, which functions similarly to this parameter in the Exciter and Damper
sections. At 0%, the pickup is located at the string’s termination point, while at 50% it is under the
midpoint of the string. Lower values generally result in a brighter, thinner sound, while higher values
have more fullness and depth.

The Body Section

Tension’s Body Section.

The role of the body or soundboard of a string instrument is to radiate the vibration energy from the
strings. The body also filters these vibrations, based on its size and shape. In some instruments, such as
guitars, the body also includes an air cavity which boosts low frequencies.

The Body section can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name.

The Body Type chooser allows you to select from different body types modeled after physical
instruments.

The Body Size chooser sets the relative size of the resonant body, from extra small (XS) to extra large
(XL). In general, as you increase the body size, the frequency of the resonance will become lower.

The decay time of the body’s resonance can be adjusted with the Decay knob. Higher values mean a
longer decay.

The Str/Body knob adjusts the ratio between the String section’s direct output and the signal filtered
by the Body section. When turned all the way to the right, there is no direct output from the String
section. When turned all the way to the left, the Body section is effectively bypassed.

You can further modify the body’s frequency response with the Low Cut and High Cut knobs.

Tension’s Volume Knob.

The Volume knob to the right of the Body section sets the overall output of the instrument. This knob is
also accessible from the Filter/Global tab.
