---
id: 28.12.4
title: "Sound Design Tips"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.12.4 Sound Design Tips

At first glance, Tension’s modular architecture may not seem so different from what you’re used to in
other synthesizers; it consists of functional building blocks that feed information through a signal path
and modify it as it goes. But it’s important to remember that Tension’s components are not isolated from
one another; what you do to one parameter can have a dramatic effect on a parameter somewhere
else. Because of this, it’s very easy to find parameter combinations that produce no sound at all. It’s
also very easy to create extremely loud sounds, so be careful when setting levels!

When using Tension, it may help to think about the various sections as if they really are attached to a
single, physical object. For example, a bow moving at a slow speed could perhaps excite an
undamped string. But if that string is constricted by an enormous damper, the bow will need to
increase its velocity to have any effect.

To get a sense of what’s possible, it may help to study how the presets were made. You’ll soon realize
that Tension can do far more than just strings.

28.13 Wavetable

The Wavetable Instrument.

Wavetable is a synthesizer that combines two wavetable-based oscillators, two analog-modelled
filters, and a powerful but intuitive modulation system. It’s designed to be usable by musicians and
sound designers with any amount of synthesis experience; it’s simple enough to yield great results with
a minimum of effort but offers a nearly limitless range of possibilities as you go deeper.

Wavetable’s interface is divided into three main sections: the oscillators (which each have their own
tab), the two filters, and the modulation section (which is divided between three tabs). To see more
parameters in a single view, click the
the main Device View and the expanded view depending on the dimensions of your screen layout.

 button in Wavetable’s title bar. Parameters will move between
