---
id: 28.12.2.2
title: "Exciter Types"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.12.2.2 Exciter Types

The modeled string can be played using different types of exciters in order to reproduce different
types of instruments and playing techniques.

The Exciter section can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name. With it off, the string can
only be activated by interaction with its damper. If both the Exciter and Damper sections are
deactivated, nothing can set the string in motion — if you find that you’re not producing any sound,
check to see that at least one of these sections is on.

The Exciter Type chooser offers four choices - Bow, Hammer, Hammer (bouncing) and Plectrum.

Bow — this exciter is associated with bowed instruments such as the violin, viola or cello. The bow sets
the string in sustained oscillation. The motion of the bow hair across the string creates friction, causing
the string to alternate between sticking to the hair and breaking free. The frequency of this alternation
between sticking and slipping determines the fundamental pitch. Note that the Damping knob is
unavailable when the Bow exciter is selected.

Hammer — this exciter type simulates the behavior of soft hammers or mallets. Hammer models a
hammer that is located below the string and strikes it once before falling away. This type of
mechanism is found in a piano, for example.

Hammer (bouncing) - this exciter type is similar to Hammer, except that it models a hammer that is
located above the string and is dropped onto it, meaning that it can bounce on the string multiple
times. This playing mode can be found on a hammered dulcimer, for example.

Plectrum — a plectrum or “pick“ is associated with instruments such as guitars and harpsichords. It can
be thought of as an angled object placed under the string that snaps the string into motion.
