---
id: 28.12.2.3
title: "Exciter Parameters"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.12.2.3 Exciter Parameters

Next to the Exciter Type chooser are five parameter knobs. The first two parameters vary depending
on the chosen Exciter Type, whereas the last three parameters are universal.

Bow Parameters:

•

•

The Force knob adjusts the amount of pressure being applied to the string by the bow. The
sound becomes more “scratchy“ as you increase this value.
The Friction knob adjusts the amount of friction between the bow and the string. Higher values
usually result in a faster attack.

Hammer / Hammer (bouncing) Parameters:

•
•

The Mass knob adjusts the mass of the hammer.
The Stiffness knob adjusts the stiffness of the hammer’s surface area.

Plectrum Parameters:

•

•

The Protrusion knob adjusts how much of the plectrum’s surface area is placed under the string.
Lower values result in a “thinner,“ smaller sound, as there is less mass setting the string into
motion.
The Stiffness knob adjusts the stiffness of the plectrum.

Universal Exciter Parameters:

•
•

•

The Velocity knob adjusts the speed at which the exciter activates the string.
The Position knob specifies the point on the string where the exciter makes contact. At 0%, the
exciter contacts the string at its termination point, while at 50% it activates the string at its
midpoint. When the Fix. Pos switch (described in more detail below) is enabled, however, the
position is not dependent on the length of the string.
The Damping knob adjusts how much of the exciter’s impact force is absorbed back into the
exciter. Note: For the Hammer (bouncing) exciter, this is somewhat analogous to the Stiffness
parameter, but instead of controlling the stiffness of the hammer’s surface it adjusts the stiffness
of the virtual “spring“ that connects the hammer to the mass that powers it. As you increase the
Damping amount, the interaction between the hammer and string will become shorter,
generally resulting in a louder, brighter sound.

The Fix. Pos switch fixes the contact point to a single location, rather than changing as the length of the
string changes. This behavior is similar to that of a guitar, where the picking position is always
basically the same regardless of the notes being played. On a piano, the exciter position is relative —
the hammers normally strike the string at about 1/7th of their length — and so is best modeled with
Fix. Pos turned off.

Finally, the Vel and Key sliders allow you to modulate their behavior based on note velocity or pitch,
respectively.

Please note that the Exciter section’s parameters work closely together to influence the overall
behavior of the instrument. You may find that certain combinations of settings result in no sound at all.
