---
id: 28.12.2.6
title: "The Pickup Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.12.2.6 The Pickup Section

Tension’s Pickup Section.

The Pickup Section models the effect of an electromagnetic pickup, similar to the type found in an
electric guitar or electric piano. It can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name. The only
control here is the Position slider, which functions similarly to this parameter in the Exciter and Damper
sections. At 0%, the pickup is located at the string’s termination point, while at 50% it is under the
midpoint of the string. Lower values generally result in a brighter, thinner sound, while higher values
have more fullness and depth.

The Body Section

Tension’s Body Section.

The role of the body or soundboard of a string instrument is to radiate the vibration energy from the
strings. The body also filters these vibrations, based on its size and shape. In some instruments, such as
guitars, the body also includes an air cavity which boosts low frequencies.

The Body section can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name.

The Body Type chooser allows you to select from different body types modeled after physical
instruments.

The Body Size chooser sets the relative size of the resonant body, from extra small (XS) to extra large
(XL). In general, as you increase the body size, the frequency of the resonance will become lower.

The decay time of the body’s resonance can be adjusted with the Decay knob. Higher values mean a
longer decay.

The Str/Body knob adjusts the ratio between the String section’s direct output and the signal filtered
by the Body section. When turned all the way to the right, there is no direct output from the String
section. When turned all the way to the left, the Body section is effectively bypassed.

You can further modify the body’s frequency response with the Low Cut and High Cut knobs.

Tension’s Volume Knob.

The Volume knob to the right of the Body section sets the overall output of the instrument. This knob is
also accessible from the Filter/Global tab.
