---
id: 28.12.2.4
title: "The Damper Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.12.2.4 The Damper Section

Tension’s Damper Section.

All string instruments employ some type of damping mechanism that mutes the resonating string. In
pianos, this is a felt pad that is applied to the string when the key is released. In instruments such as
guitars and violins, the player damps by stopping the string’s vibration with their fingers. Dampers
regulate the decay of strings but also produce some sound of their own, which is an important
characteristic of a string instrument’s timbre. The Damper section can be toggled on or off via the
switch next to its name.

Although a damper functions to mute the string rather than activate it, it is somewhat analogous to a
hammer, and shares some of the same parameters.

The Mass knob controls how hard the damper’s surface will press against the string. As you increase
the value, the string will mute more quickly.

The stiffness of the damper’s material is adjusted with the Stiffness control. Lower values simulate soft
materials such as felt, while higher values model a metal damper.

Note that very high Mass and Stiffness values can simulate dampers that connect with the string hard
enough to change its effective length, thus causing a change in tuning.

The Velocity control adjusts the speed with which the damper is applied to the string when the key is
released, as well as the speed with which it is lifted from the string when the key is depressed. Be
careful with this parameter — very high Velocity values can cause the damper to hit the string
extremely hard, which can result in a very loud sound on key release. Note that the state of the Gated
switch determines whether or not the Velocity control is enabled. When the Gated switch is turned on,

the damper is applied to the string when the key is released. With Gated off, the damper always
remains on the string, which means that the Velocity control has no effect.

The Position knob serves an analogous function to the control in the Exciter section, but here specifies
the point on the string where the damper makes contact. At 0%, the damper contacts the string at its
termination point, while at 50% it damps the string at its midpoint. The behavior is a bit different if the
Fix. Pos switch is enabled, however. In this case, the contact point is fixed to a single location, rather
than changing as the length of the string changes.

The Mass, Stiffness and Velocity, and Position parameters can be further modulated by note pitch
using the Key sliders below them.

The stiffness of the damper mechanism is adjusted with the Damping knob, which affects the overall
amount of vibration absorbed by the damper. Lower values result in less damping (longer decay
times). But this becomes a bit less predictable as the Damping value goes over 50%. At higher values,
the mechanism becomes so stiff that it bounces against the string. This in turn reduces the overall
amount of time that the damper is in contact with the string, causing an increase in decay time. The
best way to get a sense of how this parameter behaves is to gradually turn up the knob as you
repeatedly strike a single key.

The String Section

Tension’s String Section.

The vibration of the string is the main component of a stringed instrument’s sound. The effective length
of the string is also responsible for the pitch of the sound we hear.

The Decay slider determines how long it takes for the resonating string to decay to silence. Higher
values increase the decay time. The < Key slider next to Decay allows decay time to be modulated by
note pitch.

The Ratio slider sets the ratio of the decay time of the string’s oscillation during note onset and release.
At 0%, the time set by the Decay slider sets the decay time for both the onset and release of the note.
As you increase the Ratio, the release time decreases but the onset decay time stays the same.

The theoretical model of a resonating string is harmonic, meaning that the string’s partials are all exact
multiples of the fundamental frequency. Real-world strings, however, are all more or less inharmonic,
and this increases with the width of the string. The Inharm slider models this behavior, causing upper
partials to become increasingly out of tune as its value increases.

The Damping slider adjusts the amount of high frequency content in the string’s vibration. Higher
values result in more upper partials (less damping). This parameter can be modulated by note pitch
via the < Key slider to its right.

The Vibrato Section

Tension’s Vibrato Section.

The Vibrato section uses an LFO to modulate the string’s pitch. As with all of Tension’s parameters, the
controls in this section can be used to enhance the realism of a stringed instrument model — or to
create something never heard before.

The Vibrato section can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name.

The Delay slider sets how long it will take for the vibrato to start after the note begins, while Attack sets
how long it takes for the vibrato to reach full intensity (as set by the Amount knob).

The two most important parameters in this section are the Rate and Amount sliders. Rate adjusts the
frequency of the pitch variation, while Amount adjusts the intensity (amplitude) of the effect.

The < Mod slider adjusts how much the modulation wheel will affect the vibrato intensity. This control is
relative to the value set by the Amount knob.

The Error slider introduces unpredictability into the vibrato, by introducing random deviation to the
Rate, Amount, Delay and Attack parameters.
