---
id: 28.12.3
title: "FilterGlobal Tab"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.12.3 Filter/Global Tab

Tension’s Filter/Global Tab.

Tension’s Filter/Global tab features a polyphonic filter with envelope, LFO, and MIDI modulation
options, keyboard and portamento options, and an integrated Unison audio effect.

Tension’s Filter Section.

Tension’s Filter section features a highly configurable multi-mode filter that sits between the String and
Body sections. In addition, the filter can be modulated by a dedicated envelope generator and low-
frequency oscillator (LFO).

Note that the entire Filter section can be toggled on or off via the switch in the Filter subsection, while
the Filter Envelope and Filter LFO sections each have their own individual toggles.

The filter’s chooser allows you to select the filter type. You can choose between 2nd and 4th order
low-pass, band-pass, notch, high-pass and formant filters.

The resonance frequency of the filter is adjusted with the Freq slider, while the amount of resonance is
adjusted with the Res control. When a formant filter is selected, the Res control cycles between vowel
sounds. The Freq and Res controls can each be modulated by LFO, envelope or note pitch via the
sliders below. Note that the LFO and Env sliders have no effect unless the Envelope and LFO
subsections are enabled.

The Filter Envelope subsection can be toggled on or off via the switch next to its name. It is a standard
ADSR (attack, decay, sustain, release) with a few twists:

•

•

•

•

While the attack time is set with the Attack knob, this time can also be modulated by MIDI note
velocity via the Vel slider below the knob. As you increase the Vel value, the attack time will
become increasingly shorter at higher velocities.
The time it takes for the envelope to reach the sustain level after the attack phase is set by the
Decay knob.
The Sustain knob sets the level at which the envelope remains at the end of the decay phase
until the key is released. When this knob is turned all the way to the left, there is no sustain
phase. With it turned all the way to the right, there is no decay phase. The sustain level can be
additionally modulated by note velocity via the Vel slider below the knob. Higher values result
in an increased sustain level as the velocity increases.
The release time is set with the Release knob. This is the time it takes for the envelope to reach
zero after the key is released.

The Filter LFO subsection provides an additional modulation source for the filter. This section can be
toggled on or off via the switch next to its name.

The LFO waveform chooser sets the type of waveform used by the LFO. You can choose between sine,
triangle, rectangular and two types of random waveforms. The first random waveform steps between
random values while the second uses smoother ramps.

The LFO’s speed is set with the Rate knob. The switches below this knob toggle the Rate between
frequency in Hertz and tempo-synced beat divisions.

Lastly, the Attack knob controls how long it takes for the oscillator to reach its full amplitude while the
Delay knob controls how long it will take for the LFO to start after the note begins.

Tension’s MPE Section.

The MPE section includes mapping options for MPE pressure and slide data, as well as the option to
set Tension’s global and per-note pitch bend ranges. All three MPE sources include Activity LEDs,
which light up whenever Tension receives MPE signals.

For both the Pressure and Slide sources, you can choose two destinations where MPE data is routed,
and adjust the level of modulation using the Amount sliders.

Pitch Bend controls allow you to adjust the modulation range for global pitch bend, as well as the
MPE per-note pitch bend (Note PB) in semitones.

Tension’s Keyboard Section.

The Keyboard section contains all of Tension’s polyphony, tuning, MIDI parameters.

The Octave, Semi and Detune controls function as coarse and fine tuners. Octave transposes the entire
instrument by octaves, while Semi transposes up or down in semitone increments. The Detune slider
adjusts in increments of one cent (up to a maximum of 50 cents up or down).

The Voices chooser sets the available polyphony.

Stretch simulates a technique known as stretch tuning, which is a common tuning modification made to
electric and acoustic pianos. At 0%, Tension will play in equal temperament, which means that two
notes are an octave apart when the upper note’s fundamental pitch is exactly twice the lower note’s.
But because the actual resonance behavior of a vibrating tine or string differs from the theoretical

model, equal temperament tends to sound “wrong“ on pianos. Increasing the Stretch amount raises
the pitch of upper notes while lowering the pitch of lower ones. The result is a more brilliant sound.
Negative values simulate “negative“ stretch tuning; upper notes become flatter while lower notes
become sharper.

The Error slider increases the amount of random tuning error applied to each note. Try very high
values if you would like to relive your experiences from junior high school orchestra.

Lastly, Priority determines which notes will be cut off when the maximum polyphony is exceeded.
When Priority is set to High, new notes that are higher than currently sustained notes will have priority,
and notes will be cut off starting from the lowest pitch. Low Priority is the opposite. The Last setting
gives priority to the most recently played notes, cutting off the oldest notes as necessary.

Tension’s Portamento Section.

The Portamento section is used to make the pitch slide between notes rather than changing
immediately. The effect can be toggled on and off via the switch next to its name.

The Time slider sets the overall speed of the slide.

With Legato enabled, the sliding will only occur if the second note is played before the first note is
released.

Prop. (Proportional) causes the slide time to be proportional to the interval between the notes. Large
intervals will slide slower than small intervals. Disabling this switch causes the slide time to be constant
regardless of interval.

Tension’s Unison Section.

The Unison section allows you to stack multiple voices for each note played. Use the Unison toggle to
switch the section on or off.

The Voices switch selects between two or four stacked voices, while Detune adjusts the amount of
tuning variation applied to each stacked voice. Low values can create a subtle chorusing effect, while
high values provide another good way to approximate a youth orchestra.

Increasing the Delay amount adds lag before each stacked voice is activated.

Tension’s Volume Knob.

The Volume knob in the corner sets the overall output of the instrument. This knob is also accessible
from the String tab.
