---
id: 28.13.2
title: "Oscillators"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.13.2 Oscillators

Wavetable’s oscillators have been optimized for maximum sound quality. As long as no modulation is
applied, the raw output of the oscillators is perfectly band-limited and will not produce aliasing
artifacts at any pitch.

Wavetable’s Oscillators.

Each oscillator can be turned on or off independently via a switch in the oscillator’s tab. Clicking a tab
will select that oscillator, revealing its parameters for editing.

The overall output level of each oscillator is adjusted with its Gain slider, while its position in the stereo
field can be adjusted with the Pan control. The coarse and fine tuning of each oscillator can be set
with the Semi and Detune controls. Note that this tuning is in relation to the global Transposition slider.

Select a wavetable using the choosers or the arrow buttons. The first chooser selects a category of
wavetable, while the second chooser selects a specific wavetable from within that category. The
arrow buttons will automatically switch to the next category when you reach the end of the current
one, so you can continuously move through the wavetables using the arrows alone.

You can extend the sonic capabilities of Wavetable’s oscillator section by loading any WAV or AIFF
file as a wavetable. To do this, drag and drop a sample from the browser directly onto the wavetable
visualization. The choosers and arrow buttons will now reference the folder containing the imported
sample, allowing you to quickly audition any other samples in that folder.

Wavetable will automatically process imported samples to reduce unwanted artefacts. Note that you
can bypass this processing by activating the Raw mode switch. Raw mode is especially useful when
loading files that have been prepared specifically for use as a wavetable. However, it can also be
“misused” to create unpredictable, noisy or glitchy sounds.

Wavetable’s Raw Mode Switch.

The oscillator’s wavetable is visualized in the center of the oscillator tab. Clicking and dragging within
the visualization will move to a different position within the wavetable. You can also change the
wavetable position via the Wave Position slider.

There are two types of wavetable visualizations available, and these can be switched via the
wavetable visualization switch. Both views represent the same information, but visualized in different
ways. The linear view arranges the waveforms from bottom to top, with time running from left to right.
The polar view displays the waveforms as loops from inside to outside, with time running clockwise.

Although there is a huge range of available wavetables, it’s also possible to transform the sound of
each wavetable itself through the use of oscillator effects. Select from three effects in the chooser and
then adjust the parameters for those effects via the sliders to the right. The oscillator effects include:

•

•

•

FM — Applies frequency modulation to the oscillator. The Amt slider adjusts the intensity of the
frequency modulation, while the Tune slider determines the frequency of the modulation
oscillator. With a tuning of 50% (and -50%), the modulation oscillator is one octave higher (or
lower) than the main oscillator. At 100% (and -100%), the modulation oscillator is two octaves
higher (or lower). In between these values, the modulation oscillator is at inharmonic ratios,
which is ideal for creating noisy overtones.
Classic — Provides two modulation types that are common from classic analog synthesizers.
PW adjusts the pulse width of the waveform. Note that in hardware synthesizers, it is normally
only possible to adjust the pulse width of square waves. In Wavetable, the pulse width can be
adjusted for all wavetables. Sync applies a “hidden” oscillator that resets the phase of the
audible oscillator, altering its timbre.
Modern — Provides two additional options for distorting the shape of the waveform. Warp is
similar to pulse width, while Fold applies wavefolding distortion.

Note that the values of the two effects parameters don’t change when the effect type changes. This
makes it possible to move between the effects to experiment with how the different processes affect
the timbre with the same values.
