---
id: 28.13.5
title: "Matrix Tab"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.13.5 Matrix Tab

The Modulation Matrix enables assigning modulation from Envelopes and LFOs (also known as
“internal modulation sources”) to parameters within the instrument (or “modulation targets”).

Wavetable’s Matrix Tab.

The modulation sources run horizontally, while the modulation targets run vertically. Click and drag
within the grid to change the amount of modulation that the selected source applies to the selected
parameter.

Note that certain parameters are additive modulation targets, while others are multiplicative
modulation targets.

Additive modulation is applied to a parameter using the following formula:

1.
2.

The outputs of a parameter’s modulation sources are summed together.
The summed modulation value is added to the current parameter value.

Modulation values for additive modulation are centered around 0, with 0 being the “neutral” value.
Additive modulation values can be negative or positive. Modulation sources that output negative and
positive values are “bipolar” sources. Modulation sources that only output positive values are
“unipolar” sources.

Multiplicative modulation is applied to a parameter using the following formula:

1.
2.

The outputs of a parameter’s modulation sources are multiplied together.
The multiplied modulation value is multiplied with the current parameter value.

The neutral value for multiplicative modulation is 1, and the minimum value is 0. Parameters with
multiplicative modulation are noted throughout the Wavetable manual.

Click on a parameter in the instrument to make it appear temporarily in the matrix. If you apply
modulation to this parameter, it will remain in the matrix. If no modulation is applied, the parameter
will disappear from the matrix when you click another parameter. Note that the Matrix tab and MIDI
tab share the same rows.

Click on any of the modulation source headers located above the matrix to quickly jump to its
respective panel within the Mod Sources tab.

The Time slider will scale the times of all the modulators. Negative values will make envelopes and
LFOs faster, while positive values will make them slower. Modulating this value with an envelope or
LFO will not affect the assigned modulator, but that modulator will still scale to other destinations.

The Amount slider sets the overall amount of modulation for all sources in the modulation matrix. Note
that this is a multiplicative modulation destination.
