---
id: 28.13.6
title: "Mod Sources Tab"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.13.6 Mod Sources Tab

The Mod Sources tab allows you to adjust Envelope and LFO settings, which are described in more
detail below.

Wavetable’s Mod Sources Tab.

Envelopes

Wavetable’s envelopes (Amp, Env 2 and Env 3) can be modified using Time and Slope parameters,
while Env 2 and Env 3 include additional Value controls. Note that you can adjust the Time, Slope
and Value parameters by clicking and dragging the envelope display.

Attack sets the time needed to travel from the initial value to the Peak value. The shape of this stage of
the envelope is determined by the Attack Slope value.

Decay sets the time needed to travel from the Peak value to the Sustain level. The shape of this stage of
the envelope is determined by the Decay Slope value.

Sustain sets the level reached at the end of the Decay stage. The envelope will remain at this level until
a Note Off occurs, unless the Loop mode is set to Trigger or Loop, in which case it will continue to the
Release stage as soon as it is reached. Note that this is a multiplicative modulation destination.

Release sets the time needed to travel to the Final value after a Note Off occurs. The shape of this
stage of the envelope is determined by the Release Slope value.

As mentioned above, Wavetable’s envelopes also provide parameters that adjust the slope of their
envelope segments. Positive slope values cause the envelope to move quickly at the beginning, then
slower. Negative slope values cause the envelope to remain flat for longer, then move faster at the
end. A slope of zero is linear; the envelope will move at the same rate throughout the segment.

The Initial slider sets the starting value of the envelope when it is triggered. Note that this is a
multiplicative modulation destination. This control is not available for the amp envelope.

The Peak slider sets the value which marks the end of the Attack stage and the beginning of the Decay
stage. This control is not available for the amp envelope.

The Final slider sets the value at the end of the Release stage. This control is not available for the amp
envelope.

The Loop Modes drop-down lets you choose from one of three modes:

•
•
•

None will hold the Sustain portion until a Note Off, and will not loop.
Trigger will play all segments once a Note On is received.
Loop will loop the entire envelope without holding the Sustain, until the voice ends.

28.13.6.1 LFOs

Wavetable includes two LFOs, which can be adjusted individually via the parameters described in this
section.

Wavetable’s LFOs.

You can choose from one of five LFO waveforms, and use the Shape slider to modify the selected
waveform’s shape:

•
•
•
•

Sine and Saw: Applies an increasing or decreasing slope.
Triangle: Morphs the symmetry from Ramp to Saw, with Triangle in the middle.
Square: Changes the pulse width.
Random: Changes the distribution of extreme values.

The Sync switch sets the LFO Rate in Hertz or synced to the song tempo, while the Rate slider sets the
LFO frequency in Hertz or beat divisions. Note that you can also adjust the LFO frequency by
dragging the waveform display.

Amount adjusts the amount of LFO modulation that is applied to incoming signals. Note that this is a
multiplicative modulation destination.

The Offset slider offsets the phase of the LFO so that it starts at a different value. Note that Offset
cannot be modulated.

You can use the LFO Attack slider to adjust the time the LFO takes to fade in, when it has been
triggered by a Note On.

When enabled, the LFO Retrigger switch will cause the LFO to reset to its starting point, or initial
phase, on each new MIDI note. This can create hybrid LFO shapes if the LFO is retriggered before
completing a cycle.
