---
id: 28.13.4
title: "Filters"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.13.4 Filters

Wavetable’s filters can be very useful for shaping the sonically rich timbres created by the oscillators
and their effects. And, since the oscillators also provide you with the classic waveforms of analog
synthesizers, you can very easily build a subtractive-style synthesizer with them.

Wavetable’s Filters.

Wavetable offers a variety of filter types including low-pass, high-pass, band-pass, notch, and a
special Morph filter. Each filter can be switched between 12 and 24 dB slopes as well as a selection
of analog-modeled circuit behaviors developed in conjunction with Cytomic that emulate hardware
filters found on some classic analog synthesizers.

The Clean circuit option is a high-quality, CPU-efficient design that is the same as the filters used in EQ
Eight. This is available for all of the filter types.

The OSR circuit option is a state-variable type with resonance limited by a unique hard-clipping
diode. This is modeled on the filters used in a somewhat rare British monosynth, and is available for all
filter types.

The MS2 circuit option uses a Sallen-Key design and soft clipping to limit resonance. It is modeled on
the filters used in a famous semi-modular Japanese monosynth and is available for the low-pass and
high-pass filters.

The SMP circuit is a custom design not based on any particular hardware. It shares characteristics of
both the MS2 and PRD circuits and is available for the low-pass and high-pass filters.

The PRD circuit uses a ladder design and has no explicit resonance limiting. It is modeled on the filters
used in a legacy dual-oscillator monosynth from the United States and is available for the low-pass
and high-pass filters.

The most important filter parameters are the typical synth controls Frequency and Resonance.
Frequency determines where in the harmonic spectrum the filter is applied; Resonance boosts
frequencies near that point. Note that you can adjust the Frequency and Resonance parameters by
clicking and dragging either of the filter dots in the filter display.

When using the low-pass, high-pass, or band-pass filter with any circuit type besides Clean, there is
an additional Drive control that can be used to add gain or distortion to the signal before it enters the
filter.

The Morph filter has an additional Morph control which sweeps the filter type continuously from low-
pass to band-pass to high-pass to notch and back to low-pass.

Filter routing allows you to arrange the filters in various configurations for drastically different sculpting
techniques. You can choose from one of three different routings:

•

•

Serial — Routes all oscillators into Filter 1, and routes Filter 1 into Filter 2. Sub is routed to both
filters.
Parallel — Routes the two main oscillators into Filter 1 and Filter 2. Sub is routed to both filters.

•

Split — Routes Oscillator 1 to Filter 1, and Oscillator 2 to Filter 2. Sub is split in half and sent to
both filters. If either filter is off, the corresponding oscillator’s signal is still audible. Split can be
used to treat each filter separately, and is useful for cases where you want to create layered
synth sounds. If the main oscillators are disabled while both filters are engaged, Split can also
be used to add extra treatment to the Sub oscillator.
