---
id: 10.1
title: "The MIDI Note Editor Layout"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.1 The MIDI Note Editor Layout

The MIDI Note Editor allows you to add, move and adjust MIDI notes to make your musical ideas
come to life.

To view the MIDI Note Editor, first open the Clip View by double-clicking on a clip or by using the
Ctrl

3 (Mac) keyboard shortcut.

3 (Win) / Cmd

Option

Alt

The Clip View has three editor view modes: the MIDI Note Editor, described in this chapter, as well as
the Envelopes Editor and the MPE Editor, detailed in separate chapters. These editor view modes are
accessible through tabs in the Clip View header. Select the Notes tab to open the MIDI Note Editor.

The MIDI Note Editor Layout.

1.

Use the tabs in the Clip View header to access different editor view modes. Make sure that the
Notes tab is selected to add and manipulate MIDI notes.

2.

You can add MIDI notes directly in the MIDI Note Editor’s grid.

3.

The MIDI Note Editor has both vertical and horizontal navigation. Along the horizontal axis lies
a time ruler, which shows note position along a musical timeline. The vertical axis contains the
note ruler, which displays octaves C-2–C8, the subset of pitches used by a loaded tuning
system, or a list of drum pads if a Drum Rack is loaded. The vertical axis also includes a
representation of a piano keyboard (the piano ruler).

Note Scale Position Is Shown Vertically and Beat-Time Horizontally.

4.

On the left side of the Clip View header, you will find options for folding key tracks and scale
highlighting (if a scale is enabled in the MIDI clip), as well as the Find and Select Notes toggle.

5.

If the Find and Select Notes toggle is active, note selection filters appear above the time ruler.

6.

If the Preview switch above the piano ruler is activated, you will hear the sound of the
corresponding pitch/drum pad when you click a piano ruler’s key or when you add or move a
MIDI note in a key track.
