---
id: 28.4.1
title: "Sample Controls Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.4.1 Sample Controls Section

Drum Sampler’s Sample Controls Section.

In the Sample Controls section, you can modify the sample’s envelope, pitch, and volume, as well as
swap out a loaded sample.

To load a sample into Drum Sampler, double-click a file in the browser or drag and drop it onto the
waveform display.

The Sample Start slider sets the point where sample playback begins, calculated as a percentage of
the sample’s length. Hold Shift while dragging the slider to adjust the start point in fine increments.

The Sample Length slider sets the length of the region that is played, calculated as a percentage of the
sample’s total length.

You can use the Sample Gain slider to adjust the volume of the sample, from -70 to 24 dB.

Adjusting the Sample Start, Sample Length, and Sample Gain controls also updates the waveform in
the display.

You can use the Attack, Hold, and Decay controls to adjust the sample’s envelope.

Attack sets the time needed to travel from the envelope’s initial level to its peak level.

Hold sets the time the envelope’s amplitude level remains at the peak level after reaching the attack
time. This parameter is disabled when the device’s Envelope Mode is set to Gate.

Decay sets the time needed to travel from the peak level back to zero after the Hold time is reached in
Trigger mode, or once the note is released in Gate mode.

The Transpose slider sets the global transposition amount, from -48 to 48 semitones, while the Detune
slider sets the global detune amount, from -50 to 50 cents.

Drum Sampler offers two envelope modes: Trigger and Gate. In Trigger mode, the sample continues
to play for the duration of the set Hold time after a note is released. In Gate mode, the sample fades
out according to the set Decay time once a note is released.

Hovering over the waveform display reveals additional controls for managing the loaded sample.

The Similar Sample Swapping and Hot-Swap Controls.

Use the Swap to Next Similar Sample button to cycle through samples that sound similar to the
original file. To go back through the options, click the Swap to Previous Similar Sample button. You
can also right-click the display and select Show Similar Files to access a list of similar samples in the
browser.

When cycling through samples, you can return to the initially loaded file by right-clicking the
waveform display and selecting Return to Reference. To set the currently loaded file as a new
reference for swapping, use the Save as Similarity Reference option.

The hot-swap button opens the Hot-Swap Browser, where you can replace the loaded sample with a
different one. To replace Drum Sampler with another instrument, use the hot-swap button in the
device’s title bar.
