---
id: 28.4.2
title: "Playback Effects Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.4.2 Playback Effects Section

Drum Sampler’s Playback Effects Section.

You can apply one of nine playback effects to further sculpt a sample’s sound: Stretch, Loop, Pitch Env,
Punch, 8-Bit, FM, Ring Mod, Sub Osc, and Noise.

Each playback effect has two parameters, which can be adjusted via dedicated knobs or by using the
X/Y pad. Drag vertically on the X/Y pad to adjust the first parameter, and drag horizontally to adjust
the second.

Use the Playback Effect On toggle to turn this section on or off. When enabled, you can select an
effect from the Playback Effect Type drop-down menu.

Stretch changes the sample’s length without altering its pitch. This produces granular artifacts, which
add lo-fi texture to the sound. The Factor control sets the amount of time-stretching as a multiple of the
original playback speed. The Grain Size control sets the size of the grain used to time-stretch the
sample in milliseconds.

Loop repeats a portion of the sample. The Loop Offset control sets the loop start point relative to the
sample start. The Loop Length control sets the loop’s duration in milliseconds.

Pitch Env uses an envelope to modulate the pitch of the sample over time. The Pitch Envelope Amount
control sets the amount of pitch modulation applied, from -100 to 100%. Positive values result in a
higher pitch, while negative values result in a lower pitch. The Pitch Envelope Decay control sets the
time it takes for the pitch to return to the base value as defined by the device’s global pitch controls.

Punch applies ducking with a fixed attack and an envelope shaped to emphasize the sample’s
transient. The Punch Amount control sets the amount of ducking applied. The Punch Release control
determines how long it takes for the gain reduction to return to zero after the initial trigger.

8-Bit applies a combination of filtering, bit reduction, and sample rate reduction to recreate the sound
of 8-bit CPU chips. The 8-Bit Sample Rate control sets the sample rate at which the sample is played
back. The 8-Bit Decay Time control sets the decay time of the effect’s built-in low-pass filter.

FM uses a sine wave to modulate the sample’s pitch. The Amount control sets the intensity of the
frequency modulation, while the FM Frequency control sets the frequency used to modulate the
sample’s pitch.

Ring Mod applies ring modulation to the sample. The Amount control sets how much modulation is
applied. The Ring Mod Frequency control sets the frequency used to modulate the sample’s amplitude.
Low values produce a tremolo effect, while high values produce artifacts that are typical of ring
modulation.

Sub Osc layers a sub oscillator with the sample. The Sub Oscillator Amount knob sets the oscillator’s
level. The oscillator envelope uses the device’s attack and decay settings. The Sub Oscillator
Frequency sets the oscillator’s frequency, from 30 to 120 Hz.

Noise Osc layers a noise oscillator with the sample. The Noise Amount knob sets the oscillator’s level.
The oscillator envelope uses the device’s attack and decay settings. The Noise Color control sets the
frequency used to filter the oscillator.

Note that time-based and frequency-related controls in the Stretch, Loop, FM, Ring Mod, Sub Osc,
and Noise Osc effects are influenced by the device’s global pitch controls and the MIDI note played.
This ensures that each effect’s pitch follows the pitch of the sample as different notes are played or
when the sample is transposed.

Additionally, the modulation decay of the FM and Ring Mod effects is affected by the global decay
time. For example, with short decay times, modulation is applied only to the sample’s transient.

28.4.3 Filter Section

Drum Sampler’s Filter Section.

Use the Filter On toggle to turn the filter on or off.

There are four filter types to choose from: a 12 dB low-pass filter, a 24 dB low-pass filter, a 24 dB
high-pass filter, and a peak filter.

The low and high-pass filters include dedicated Resonance and Filter Frequency controls. When the
peak filter is selected, you can use the Peak Filter Gain and Filter Frequency controls to boost or cut a
specific frequency range.
