---
id: 28.4.5
title: "Context Menu Options for Drum Sampler"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.4.5 Context Menu Options for Drum Sampler

In addition to the usual device context menu entries, there are also a couple of options unique to Drum
Sampler.

Enable Per-Note Pitch Bend — This option allows Drum Sampler to receive per-note pitch bend
messages and is enabled by default.

Drum Sampler > Simpler — This replaces Drum Sampler with Simpler, retaining the sample’s start and
length positions.

When using Drum Racks, you can select the Save as Default Pad option from a pad’s context menu to
use Drum Sampler as the default for new samples.

The Save as Default Pad Option.

This means that each time a sample is added to an empty drum pad, an instance of Drum Sampler is
automatically loaded.

28.5 Electric

The Electric Instrument.

Electric is a software electric piano developed in collaboration with Applied Acoustics Systems. It is
based on the classic instruments of the seventies; each component has been modeled using cutting
edge physical modeling technology to provide realistic and lively sounds.

Physical modeling uses the laws of physics to reproduce the behavior of an object. In other words,
Electric solves, in real time, mathematical equations describing how its different components function.
No sampling or wavetables are used in Electric; the sound is calculated in real time by the CPU
according to the values of each parameter. Electric is more than a simple recreation of vintage
instruments; its parameters can be tweaked to values not possible with the real instruments to get some
truly amazing new sounds that still retain a warm acoustic quality.
