---
id: 28.10.5.1
title: "Round Robin Sample Playback"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.5.1 Round Robin Sample Playback

Using Different Samples for Round Robin Playback.

Round Robin is a playback method that triggers a different sample each time a note is played. This lets
you cycle through a set of samples in a defined order over time.

You can, for example, use Round Robin to cycle through samples of the same sound or note with
different articulations to add subtle nuances to repetitive drum or note patterns. You can also use it
with radically different-sounding samples to create unexpected rhythmic or tonal changes throughout
a pattern.

To use Round Robin, enable the RR toggle in the Zone Editor.

Enable the RR Toggle to Activate Round Robin Playback.

Once enabled, any samples in the sample layer list that share the same key zone can be triggered
when a note within that range is played.

You can select an option in the Round Robin Mode chooser to determine how the samples are
triggered:

Forward — Cycles through samples in order starting from the top of the sample layer list to the bottom.
Once the last sample is played, the cycle begins again from the topmost sample.

Backward — Cycles through samples in order starting from the bottom of the sample layer list to the
top. The cycle is repeated once the topmost sample is played.

Other — Cycles through samples randomly; the same sample will never be triggered twice in a row.

Random — Cycles through samples randomly; multiple retriggers of the same sample are possible.

The Round Robin Mode Chooser.

You can set a specific interval at which the cycle restarts via the Reset Interval chooser. This is useful for
triggering samples predictably and consistently. For example, if the Round Robin Mode is set to
Forward with a reset interval of 1 bar, the topmost sample triggers on the first note of each bar. In
Backward mode, the cycle restarts from the bottommost sample. In Other or Random mode, the cycle
restarts from the sample that was first played.

The Reset Interval Chooser.
