---
id: 28.10.7.1
title: "The Modulation Oscillator (Osc)"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.7.1 The Modulation Oscillator (Osc)

Sampler features one dedicated modulation oscillator per voice, which can perform frequency or
amplitude modulation (FM or AM) on the multisample. The oscillator is fully featured, with 21
waveforms (available in the Type chooser), plus its own loopable amplitude envelope for dynamic
waveshaping. Note that this oscillator performs modulation only — its output is never heard directly.
What you hear is the effect of its output upon the multisample.

FM — In this mode, the modulation oscillator will modulate the frequency of samples, resulting in more
complex and different-sounding waveforms.

AM — In this mode, the modulation oscillator will modulate the amplitude of samples. Subsonic
modulator frequencies result in slow or rapid variation in the volume level; audible modulator
frequencies result in composite waveforms.

The modulation oscillator is controlled via Initial, Peak, Sustain, End, Loop, Attack and Time <
Velocities parameters. For detailed information on how these work, see the Sample Playback section.
Additionally, the right side of the modulation oscillator section features the following controls:

Type — Choose the modulation oscillator’s waveform here.

Volume — This determines the intensity of the modulation oscillator’s sample modulation.

Vol < Vel — The modulation oscillator’s Volume parameter can be modified by the velocity of
incoming MIDI notes. This determines the depth of the modulation.

Fixed — When enabled, the modulation oscillator’s frequency will remain fixed at the rate determined
by the Freq and Multi parameters, and will not change in response to incoming MIDI notes.

Freq — With Fixed set to On, this rate is multiplied by the Multi parameter to determine the modulation
oscillator’s fixed frequency.

Multi — With Fixed set to On, the Freq parameter is multiplied by this amount to determine the
modulation oscillator’s fixed frequency.

Coarse — Coarse tuning of the modulation oscillator’s frequency (0.125-48). This is only available
when Fixed is set to Off.

Fine — Fine tuning of the modulation oscillator’s frequency (0-1000). This is only available when
Fixed is set to Off.
