---
id: 28.10.7.2
title: "The Pitch Envelope"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.7.2 The Pitch Envelope

The pitch envelope modulates the pitch of the sample over time, as well as of the Modulation
Oscillator, if it is enabled. This is a multi-stage envelope with ADSR, Initial, Peak, and End levels, as
described in the Sample Playback section. The values of the envelope parameters can be adjusted via
the sliders, or by dragging the breakpoints in the envelope’s display.

On the lower-left of the Pitch Envelope section is the Amount slider. This defines the limits of the pitch
envelope’s influence, in semitones. The actual range depends upon the dynamics of the envelope
itself.

The right-hand side of this section contains five sliders and one chooser that are unrelated to the Pitch
Envelope, but can globally effect Sampler’s output:

Spread — When Spread is used, two detuned voices are generated per note. This also doubles the
processing requirements.

Transpose (Transp) — Global transpose amount, indicated in semitones.

Detune — Global detune amount, indicated in cents.

Key Zone Shift (Zn Shft) — This transposes MIDI notes in the Key Zone Editor only, so that different
samples may be selected for playback, even though they will adhere to the played pitch. Good for
getting interesting artifacts from multisamples.

Glide — The global Glide mode, used in conjunction with the Time parameter to smoothly transition
between pitches. ’Glide’ is a standard monophonic glide, while ’Portamento’ works polyphonically.

Time — Enabling a Glide mode produces a smooth transition between the pitch of played notes. This
parameter determines the length of the transition.

28.10.8 The Filter/Global Tab

The Filter/Global Tab.
