---
id: 28.10.5
title: "The Zone Tab"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.5 The Zone Tab

The Zone Tab.

Clicking on the Zone tab toggles the display of Sampler‘s Zone Editor, which offers a hands-on
interface for mapping any number of samples across three types of ranges — the Key Zone, the
Velocity Zone and Sample Select Editors, respectively.

The Key Zone Editor.

The Zone Editor opens in its own dedicated view, directly above the Device View. When used in
conjunction with Sampler’s other tabs, this layout greatly accelerates the creation and editing of
multisamples.

On the left side of the Zone Editor is the sample layer list, where multisamples are organized. All of the
individual samples belonging to a multisample are shown in this list, where they are referred to as
layers. For complex multisamples, this list can be quite long.

Above the sample layer list are various buttons for configuring the sample layers and toggling the
different editors:

Auto Select (Auto) — As MIDI notes arrive at Sampler, they are filtered by each sample layer’s key,
velocity and sample select zones. With Auto Select enabled, all sample layers that are able to play
an incoming note will become selected in the sample layer list for the duration of that note.

Zone Fade Mode (Lin/Pow) — This button toggles the fade mode of all zones between linear and
constant-power (exponential) slopes.

Round Robin (RR) — This button toggles Round Robin sample playback on or off.

Zone Editor View (Key/Vel/Sel) — These buttons toggle the display of the Key Zone, Velocity Zone
and Sample Select Editors.

The rest of the view is occupied by one of three editors that correspond to the sample layers: the Key
Zone Editor, the Velocity Zone Editor and the Sample Select Editor. These editors can be horizontally
zoomed by right-clicking within them to bring up a context menu, and selecting Small, Medium or
Large.

28.10.5.1 Round Robin Sample Playback

Using Different Samples for Round Robin Playback.

Round Robin is a playback method that triggers a different sample each time a note is played. This lets
you cycle through a set of samples in a defined order over time.

You can, for example, use Round Robin to cycle through samples of the same sound or note with
different articulations to add subtle nuances to repetitive drum or note patterns. You can also use it
with radically different-sounding samples to create unexpected rhythmic or tonal changes throughout
a pattern.

To use Round Robin, enable the RR toggle in the Zone Editor.

Enable the RR Toggle to Activate Round Robin Playback.

Once enabled, any samples in the sample layer list that share the same key zone can be triggered
when a note within that range is played.

You can select an option in the Round Robin Mode chooser to determine how the samples are
triggered:

Forward — Cycles through samples in order starting from the top of the sample layer list to the bottom.
Once the last sample is played, the cycle begins again from the topmost sample.

Backward — Cycles through samples in order starting from the bottom of the sample layer list to the
top. The cycle is repeated once the topmost sample is played.

Other — Cycles through samples randomly; the same sample will never be triggered twice in a row.

Random — Cycles through samples randomly; multiple retriggers of the same sample are possible.

The Round Robin Mode Chooser.

You can set a specific interval at which the cycle restarts via the Reset Interval chooser. This is useful for
triggering samples predictably and consistently. For example, if the Round Robin Mode is set to
Forward with a reset interval of 1 bar, the topmost sample triggers on the first note of each bar. In
Backward mode, the cycle restarts from the bottommost sample. In Other or Random mode, the cycle
restarts from the sample that was first played.

The Reset Interval Chooser.

28.10.5.2 The Sample Layer List

The Sample Layer List.

All samples contained in the currently loaded multisample are listed here, with each sample given its
own layer. For very large multisamples, this list might be hundreds of layers long! Fortunately, layers
can be descriptively named (according to their root key, for example). Mousing over a layer in the list
or a zone in the zone editors will display relevant information about the corresponding sample in the
Status Bar (bottom of screen). Selecting any layer will load its sample into the Sample tab for
examination.

Right-clicking within the sample layer list opens a context menu that offers options for sorting and
displaying the layers, distributing them across the keyboard and various other sample management
and “housekeeping“ options.

Delete — Deletes the currently selected sample(s).

Duplicate — Duplicates the currently selected sample(s).

Rename — Renames the selected sample.

Distribute Ranges Equally — Distributes samples evenly across the editor’s full MIDI note range (C-2
to G8).

Distribute Ranges Around Root Key — For layers that have different root keys, this option will distribute
their ranges as evenly as possible around their root keys, but without overlapping. For layers that
share a root key, the ranges will be distributed evenly.

Small/Medium/Large — Adjusts the zoom level of the Zone Editor.

Show in Browser — Navigates to the selected sample in the browser and selects it.

Manage Sample — Opens the File Manager and selects the chosen sample.

Normalize Volume — Adjusts Sampler’s Volume control so that the highest peak of each selected
sample uses the maximum available headroom.

Normalize Pan — Adjusts Sampler’s Pan control so that each selected sample has equal volume
across the stereo spectrum. Note that this does not necessarily return panned stereo samples to the
center position; rather, Live intelligently calculates a pan position for an even stereo spread.

Select All With Same Range — Selects all layers whose zone range matches the currently selected
layer. The results will change depending on which Zone Editor (Key, Velocity or Sample Select) is
active.

Sort Alphabetically (Ascending and Descending) — Arranges samples alphabetically according to
their names.

Sort by Key (Ascending and Descending) — Sorts key zones in an ascending or descending pattern.

Sort by Velocity (Ascending and Descending) — Sorts velocity zones in an ascending or descending
pattern.

Sort by Selector (Ascending and Descending) — Sorts sample select zones in an ascending or
descending pattern.

28.10.5.3 Key Zones

The Key Zone Editor.

Key zones define the range of MIDI notes over which each sample will play. Samples are only
triggered when incoming MIDI notes lie within their key zone. Every sample has its own key zone,
which can span anywhere from a single key up to the full 127.

A typical multisampled instrument contains many individual samples, distributed into many key zones.
Samples are captured at a particular key of an instrument’s voice range (known as their root key), but
may continue to sound accurate when transposed a few semitones up or down. This range usually
corresponds to the sample’s key zone; ranges beyond this zone are represented by additional
samples, as needed.

By default, the key zones of newly imported samples cover the full MIDI note range. Zones can be
moved and resized like clips in the Arrangement View, by dragging their right or left edges to resize
them, then dragging them into position.

Zones can also be faded over a number of semitones at either end by dragging their top right or left
corners. This makes it easy to smoothly crossfade between adjacent samples as the length of the
keyboard is traversed. The Lin and Pow boxes above the sample layer list indicate whether the zones
will fade in a linear or exponential manner.

28.10.5.4 Velocity Zones

The Velocity Zone Editor.

Velocity zones determine the range of MIDI Note On velocities (1-127) that each sample will respond
to. The timbre of most musical instruments changes greatly with playing intensity. Therefore, the best
multisamples capture not only individual notes, but also each of those notes at different velocities.

The Velocity Zone Editor, when toggled, appears alongside the sample layer list. Velocity is measured
on a scale of 1-127, and this number range appears across the top of the editor. The functionality of
the Velocity Zone Editor is otherwise identical to that of the Key Zone Editor.

28.10.5.5 Sample Select Zones

The Sample Select Editor.

Each sample also has a Sample Select zone, which is a data filter that is not tied to any particular
kind of MIDI input. Sample Select zones are very similar to the Chain Select Zones found in Racks, in
that only samples with sample select values that overlap the current value of the sample selector will
be triggered.

The Sample Select Editor, when toggled, appears alongside the sample layer list. The editor has a
scale of 0-127, similar to the Velocity Zone Editor. Above the value scale is the draggable indicator
known as the sample selector.

The Sample Selector.

The position of the sample selector only determines which samples are available for triggering. Once
a sample has been triggered, changing the position of the sample selector will not switch to a different
sample during playback.
