---
id: 28.10.3
title: "Title Bar Options"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.3 Title Bar Options

Sampler’s Title Bar Context Menu.

Before delving into Sampler’s deep modulation features, let’s look at Sampler’s title bar context menu
options.

Although Cut, Copy, Rename, Edit Info Text, and Delete should already be familiar, the other entries
deserve some explanation:

Group — Selecting this will load Sampler into a new Instrument Rack.

Fold — Folds Sampler so that only the device title bar is visible. Unfold quickly by double-clicking the
device title bar.

Show Preset Name — By default, Sampler takes the top-most sample in the sample layer list as its title.
Unchecking Show Preset Name will replace the current title with “Sampler.”

Lock to Control Surface — Locks Sampler to a natively supported control surface defined in the Link,
Tempo & MIDI Settings, guaranteeing hands-on access no matter where the current focus is in your
Live Set. By default, Sampler will automatically be locked to the control surface when the track is
armed for recording. A hand icon in the title bar of locked devices serves as a reminder of their
statuses.

Save as Default Preset — Saves the current state of Sampler as the default preset.

Use Constant Power Fade for Loops — By default, Sampler uses constant-power fades at loop
boundaries. Uncheck this to enable linear crossfades at looping points.

Sampler -> Simpler — Converts Sampler presets to Simpler presets. This lets you easily share Sets with
other musicians even if they don’t use a Live edition that includes Sampler.

28.10.4 Sampler’s Tabs

Sampler’s Tabs in the Title Bar.

Sampler’s features are organized categorically into tabs (Zone, Sample, Pitch/Osc, Filter/Global,
Modulation and MIDI), accessed from Sampler‘s title bar. Clicking a tab will, with the exception of the
Zone tab, reveal its properties below. In addition to serving as an organizational aid, each tab has
one or more LEDs that indicate if there is modulation information in the corresponding area. We will
get to know Sampler by examining each of these tabs.
