---
id: 28.10.8.1
title: "The Filter"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.8.1 The Filter

Sampler features a polyphonic filter with an optional integrated waveshaper. The filter section offers a
variety of filter types including low-pass, high-pass, band-pass, notch, and a special Morph filter.
Each filter can be switched between 12 and 24 dB slopes as well as a selection of analog-modeled
circuit behaviors developed in conjunction with Cytomic that emulate hardware filters found on some
classic analog synthesizers.

The Clean circuit option is a high-quality, CPU-efficient design that is the same as the filters used in EQ
Eight. This is available for all of the filter types.

The OSR circuit option is a state-variable type with resonance limited by a unique hard-clipping
diode. This is modeled on the filters used in a somewhat rare British monosynth, and is available for all
filter types.

The MS2 circuit option uses a Sallen-Key design and soft clipping to limit resonance. It is modeled on
the filters used in a famous semi-modular Japanese monosynth and is available for the low-pass and
high-pass filters.

The SMP circuit is a custom design not based on any particular hardware. It shares characteristics of
both the MS2 and PRD circuits and is available for the low-pass and high-pass filters.

The PRD circuit uses a ladder design and has no explicit resonance limiting. It is modeled on the filters
used in a legacy dual-oscillator monosynth from the United States and is available for the low-pass
and high-pass filters.

The most important filter parameters are the typical synth controls Frequency and Resonance.
Frequency determines where in the harmonic spectrum the filter is applied; Resonance boosts
frequencies near that point.

When using the low-pass, high-pass, or band-pass filter with any circuit type besides Clean, there is
an additional Drive control that can be used to add gain or distortion to the signal before it enters the
filter.

The Morph filter has an additional Morph control which sweeps the filter type continuously from low-
pass to band-pass to high-pass to notch and back to low-pass.

You can quickly snap the Morph control to a low-pass, band-pass, high-pass, or notch setting via
dedicated options in the context menu of the Morph slider.

To the right, the filter’s cutoff frequency can be modulated over time by a dedicated filter envelope.
This envelope works similarly to the envelopes in the Pitch/Osc tab, with Initial, Peak, Sustain and End
levels, ADSR, Loop mode and slope points. This area is toggled on/off with the F. Env button. The
Amount slider determines how much influence the filter envelope has on the filter’s cutoff frequency,
and needs to be set to a non-zero value for the envelope to have any effect.

Below the Filter is a waveshaper, which is toggled by clicking the Shaper button. Four different curves
can be chosen for the waveshaper in the Type selector: Soft, Hard, Sine and 4bit. Shaper’s overall
intensity can be controlled with the Amount slider. In addition, the signal flow direction can be
adjusted with the button above the waveshaper area: with the triangle pointing up, the signal passes
from the shaper to the filter; with the triangle pointing down, it passes from the filter to the shaper.
