---
id: 28.10.6.1
title: "Sample Playback"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.6.1 Sample Playback

All of the following parameters work in conjunction with the global volume envelope (in the Filter/
Global tab) to create the basic voicing of Sampler. These envelopes use standard ADSR (Attack,
Decay, Sustain, Release) parameters, among others:

Envelope Attack Time (Attack) — This sets the time it takes for an envelope to reach the peak level,
starting from the initial level. The shape of the attack can be adjusted via the Attack Slope (A. Slope)
parameter.

Envelope Decay Time (Decay) — This sets the time it takes for an envelope to reach the sustain level
from the peak level. The shape of the decay can be adjusted via the Decay Slope (D. Slope)
parameter.

Envelope Sustain Level (Sustain) — This is the sustain level at the end of the envelope decay. The
envelope will stay at this level until note release unless it is in Loop, Sync or Beat Mode.

Envelope Release Time (Release) — This is the time it takes for an envelope to reach the end level after
a Note Off message is received. The shape of this stage of the envelope is determined by the Release
Slope (R. Slope) value.

Envelope Initial Level (Initial) — This sets the initial value of the envelope.

Envelope Peak Level (Peak) — This is the peak level at the end of the envelope attack, and the
beginning of the Decay stage.

Envelope End Level (End) — (LFO, Filter and pitch envelopes only) This is the level reached at the end
of the Release stage.

Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — Envelope segments will be modulated by note velocity as
defined by this setting. This is especially interesting if the envelopes are looping. Note that this
modulation does not influence the beat-time in Beat or Sync Modes, but the envelope segments
themselves.

Envelope Loop Mode (Loop) — If this is set to Loop, the envelope will start again after the end of the
decay segment. If set to Beat or Sync, it will start again after a given beat-time. In Sync Mode, this
behavior will be quantized to song time. In Trigger mode, the envelope ignores Note Off.

Envelope Beat/Sync Rate (Repeat) — The envelope will be retriggered after this amount of beat-time,
as long as it is still on. When retriggered, the envelope will move at the given attack rate from the
current level to the peak level.

Envelope Loop Time (Time) — If a note is still on after the end of the decay/sustain segment, the
envelope will start again from its initial value. The time it takes to move from the sustain level to the
initial value is defined by this parameter.

As mentioned above, Sampler’s envelopes also provide parameters that adjust the slope of their
envelope segments. Positive slope values cause the envelope to move quickly at the beginning, then
slower. Negative slope values cause the envelope to remain flat for longer, then move faster at the
end. A slope of zero is linear; the envelope will move at the same rate throughout the segment.

All time-based values in this tab are displayed in either samples or minutes:seconds:milliseconds,
which can be toggled using the context menu on any of their parameter boxes. Samples, in this
context, refer to the smallest measurable unit in digital audio, and not to the audio files themselves,
which we more commonly refer to as “samples.“

Sample Start — The time value where playback will begin. If the volume envelope’s Attack parameter
is set to a high value (slow attack), the audible result may begin some time later than the value shown
here.

Sample End — The time value where playback will end (unless a loop is enabled), even if the volume
envelope has not ended.

Sustain Mode — The optional Sustain Loop defines a region of the sample where playback will be
repeated while the note is in the sustain stage of its envelope. Activating the Sustain Loop also allows
the Release Loop to be enabled. This creates several playback options:

No Sustain Loop — Playback proceeds linearly until either the Sample End is reached or the

volume envelope completes its release stage.

Sustain Loop Enabled — Playback proceeds linearly until Loop End is reached, when it jumps
immediately to Loop Start and continues looping. If Release Mode is OFF, looping will continue inside
the Sustain Loop until the volume envelope has completed its release stage.

Back-and-Forth Sustain Loop Enabled — Playback proceeds to Loop End, then reverses until it

reaches Loop Start, then proceeds again towards Loop End. If Release Mode is OFF, this pattern
continues until the volume envelope has completed its release stage.

Link — Enabling the Link switch sets Sample Start equal to Loop Start. Note that the Sample Start
parameter box doesn’t lose its original value — it simply becomes disabled so that it can be recalled
with a single click.

Loop Start — The Sustain Loop’s start point, measured in samples.

Loop End — The Sustain Loop’s end point, measured in samples.

Release Mode — Whenever the Sustain Loop is active, Release Mode can also be enabled.

 — The volume envelope’s release stage is active, but will occur within the Sustain Loop, with

playback never proceeding beyond Loop End.

Release Enabled — When the volume envelope reaches its release stage, playback will proceed

linearly towards Sample End.

Release Loop Enabled — When the volume envelope reaches its release stage, playback will

proceed linearly until reaching Sample End, where it jumps immediately to Release Loop and
continues looping until the volume envelope has completed its release stage.

Back-and-Forth Release Loop Enabled — When the volume envelope reaches its release stage,
playback will proceed linearly until reaching Sample End, then reverses until it reaches Release Loop,
then proceeds again towards Sample End. This pattern continues until the volume envelope has
completed its release stage.

Release Loop — sets the start position of the Release Loop. The end of the Release Loop is the Sample
End.

Sustain- and Release-Loop Crossfade (Crossfade) — Loop crossfades help remove clicks from loop
transitions. By default, Sampler uses constant-power fades at loop boundaries. But by turning off “Use
Constant Power Fade for Loops“ in the context menu, you can enable linear crossfades.

Sustain- and Release-Loop Detune (Detune) — Since loops are nothing more than oscillations, the
pitch of samples may shift within a loop, relative to the loop’s duration. Tip: this is especially
noticeable with very short loops. With Detune, the pitch of these regions can be matched to the rest of
the sample.

Interpolation (Interpol) — This is a global setting that determines the accuracy of transposed samples.
Be aware that raising the quality level above “Normal“ to “Good” or “Best” will place significant
demands on your CPU.

RAM Mode (RAM) — This is also a global control that loads the entire multisample into RAM. This
mode can give better performance when modulating start and end points, but loading large
multisamples into RAM will quickly leave your computer short of RAM for other tasks. In any case, it is
always recommended to have as much RAM in your computer as possible, as this can provide
significant performance gains.

Hovering the mouse over the waveform and right-clicking to access the context menu provides a
number of editing and viewing options. As with the context menu in the Sample Layer List, Show in
Browser, Manage Samples, Normalize Volumes and Normalize Pan are available. Additionally, you
can zoom in or out of playing or looping regions, depending on which Sustain and Loop Modes are
selected.

Finally, a few options remain on the far-right side of the Sample tab:

Vertical Zoom (slider) — Magnifies the waveform height in the sample display. This is for visual clarity
only, and does not affect the audio in any way.

B, M, L and R Buttons — These buttons stand for Both, Mono, Left and Right, and allow you to choose
which channels of the sample should be displayed.

28.10.7 The Pitch/Osc Tab

The Pitch/Osc Tab.
