---
id: 28.10.5.2
title: "The Sample Layer List"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.5.2 The Sample Layer List

The Sample Layer List.

All samples contained in the currently loaded multisample are listed here, with each sample given its
own layer. For very large multisamples, this list might be hundreds of layers long! Fortunately, layers
can be descriptively named (according to their root key, for example). Mousing over a layer in the list
or a zone in the zone editors will display relevant information about the corresponding sample in the
Status Bar (bottom of screen). Selecting any layer will load its sample into the Sample tab for
examination.

Right-clicking within the sample layer list opens a context menu that offers options for sorting and
displaying the layers, distributing them across the keyboard and various other sample management
and “housekeeping“ options.

Delete — Deletes the currently selected sample(s).

Duplicate — Duplicates the currently selected sample(s).

Rename — Renames the selected sample.

Distribute Ranges Equally — Distributes samples evenly across the editor’s full MIDI note range (C-2
to G8).

Distribute Ranges Around Root Key — For layers that have different root keys, this option will distribute
their ranges as evenly as possible around their root keys, but without overlapping. For layers that
share a root key, the ranges will be distributed evenly.

Small/Medium/Large — Adjusts the zoom level of the Zone Editor.

Show in Browser — Navigates to the selected sample in the browser and selects it.

Manage Sample — Opens the File Manager and selects the chosen sample.

Normalize Volume — Adjusts Sampler’s Volume control so that the highest peak of each selected
sample uses the maximum available headroom.

Normalize Pan — Adjusts Sampler’s Pan control so that each selected sample has equal volume
across the stereo spectrum. Note that this does not necessarily return panned stereo samples to the
center position; rather, Live intelligently calculates a pan position for an even stereo spread.

Select All With Same Range — Selects all layers whose zone range matches the currently selected
layer. The results will change depending on which Zone Editor (Key, Velocity or Sample Select) is
active.

Sort Alphabetically (Ascending and Descending) — Arranges samples alphabetically according to
their names.

Sort by Key (Ascending and Descending) — Sorts key zones in an ascending or descending pattern.

Sort by Velocity (Ascending and Descending) — Sorts velocity zones in an ascending or descending
pattern.

Sort by Selector (Ascending and Descending) — Sorts sample select zones in an ascending or
descending pattern.
