---
id: 28.10.8.2
title: "The Volume Envelope and Global Controls"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.8.2 The Volume Envelope and Global Controls

The volume envelope is global, and defines the articulation of Sampler’s sounds with standard ADSR
(attack, decay, sustain, release) parameters. Please see the Sample Playback section for details on
these parameters.

This envelope can also be looped via the Loop chooser. When a Loop mode is selected, the Time/
Repeat slider becomes important. For Loop and Trigger modes, if a note is still held when the Decay
stage ends, the envelope will restart from its initial value. The time it takes to move from the Sustain
level to the initial value is defined by the Time parameter. For Beat and Sync modes, if a note is still
held after the amount set in the Repeat slider, the envelope will restart from its initial value.

The Pan slider is a global pan control (acting on all samples), while Pan < Rnd adds a degree of
randomness to the global pan position. Time (Global Time Envelope) will proportionally shrink or
expand the length of all envelopes in Sampler. Time < Key (Global Envelope Time < Key) will
proportionally shrink or expand the length of all envelopes in Sampler relative to the pitch of incoming
MIDI notes.

Finally, the Voices selector provides up to 32 simultaneous voices for each instance of Sampler. Voice
retriggering can optionally be enabled by activating the Retrigger button (R) to the right of the Voices
chooser. When activated, notes which are already playing will be retriggered, rather than generating
an additional voice. Turning Retrigger on can save CPU power, especially if a note with a long
release time is being triggered very often and very quickly.

28.10.9 The Modulation Tab

The Modulation Tab.

The Modulation tab offers an additional loopable envelope, plus three LFOs, all capable of
modulating multiple parameters, including themselves. Each LFO can be free running, or synced to the
Live Set’s tempo, and LFOs 2 and 3 can produce stereo modulation effects.
