---
id: 28.10.6
title: "The Sample Tab"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.10.6 The Sample Tab

The Sample Tab.

The playback behavior of individual samples is set within the Sample tab. Most of this tab is dedicated
to displaying the waveform of the currently selected sample. Hovering your mouse over the waveform
will display relevant information about the sample in the Status Bar (bottom of screen). It is important
to keep in mind that most of the values in this tab reflect the state of the currently selected sample only.
The Sample chooser always displays the current sample layer’s name, and is another way to switch
between layers when editing.

To zoom in the current sample, scroll with the mousewheel or trackpad while holding the Ctrl
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier.

Reverse — This is a global, modulatable control that reverses playback of the entire multisample.
Unlike the Reverse function in the Clip View, a new sample file is not generated. Instead, sample
playback begins from the Sample End point, proceeds backwards through the Sustain Loop (if active),
and arrives at the Sample Start point.

Snap — Snaps all start and end points to the waveform zero-crossings (points where the amplitude is
zero) to avoid clicks. You can quickly see this by using Snap on square wave samples. As with
Simpler, this snap is based on the left channel of stereo samples, so a small Crossfade value may be
necessary in some cases to completely eliminate clicks. You can snap individual loop regions by right-
clicking on a loop brace and selecting “Snap Marker.”

Sample — Displays the name of the current sample layer, and can be used to quickly select different
layers of the loaded multisample.

Root Key (RootKey) — Defines the root key of the current sample.

Detune — Sample tuning can be adjusted here by +/- 50 cents.

Volume — A wide-range volume control, variable from full attenuation to a gain of +24 dB.

Pan — Samples can be individually panned anywhere in the stereo panorama.

28.10.6.1 Sample Playback

All of the following parameters work in conjunction with the global volume envelope (in the Filter/
Global tab) to create the basic voicing of Sampler. These envelopes use standard ADSR (Attack,
Decay, Sustain, Release) parameters, among others:

Envelope Attack Time (Attack) — This sets the time it takes for an envelope to reach the peak level,
starting from the initial level. The shape of the attack can be adjusted via the Attack Slope (A. Slope)
parameter.

Envelope Decay Time (Decay) — This sets the time it takes for an envelope to reach the sustain level
from the peak level. The shape of the decay can be adjusted via the Decay Slope (D. Slope)
parameter.

Envelope Sustain Level (Sustain) — This is the sustain level at the end of the envelope decay. The
envelope will stay at this level until note release unless it is in Loop, Sync or Beat Mode.

Envelope Release Time (Release) — This is the time it takes for an envelope to reach the end level after
a Note Off message is received. The shape of this stage of the envelope is determined by the Release
Slope (R. Slope) value.

Envelope Initial Level (Initial) — This sets the initial value of the envelope.

Envelope Peak Level (Peak) — This is the peak level at the end of the envelope attack, and the
beginning of the Decay stage.

Envelope End Level (End) — (LFO, Filter and pitch envelopes only) This is the level reached at the end
of the Release stage.

Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — Envelope segments will be modulated by note velocity as
defined by this setting. This is especially interesting if the envelopes are looping. Note that this
modulation does not influence the beat-time in Beat or Sync Modes, but the envelope segments
themselves.

Envelope Loop Mode (Loop) — If this is set to Loop, the envelope will start again after the end of the
decay segment. If set to Beat or Sync, it will start again after a given beat-time. In Sync Mode, this
behavior will be quantized to song time. In Trigger mode, the envelope ignores Note Off.

Envelope Beat/Sync Rate (Repeat) — The envelope will be retriggered after this amount of beat-time,
as long as it is still on. When retriggered, the envelope will move at the given attack rate from the
current level to the peak level.

Envelope Loop Time (Time) — If a note is still on after the end of the decay/sustain segment, the
envelope will start again from its initial value. The time it takes to move from the sustain level to the
initial value is defined by this parameter.

As mentioned above, Sampler’s envelopes also provide parameters that adjust the slope of their
envelope segments. Positive slope values cause the envelope to move quickly at the beginning, then
slower. Negative slope values cause the envelope to remain flat for longer, then move faster at the
end. A slope of zero is linear; the envelope will move at the same rate throughout the segment.

All time-based values in this tab are displayed in either samples or minutes:seconds:milliseconds,
which can be toggled using the context menu on any of their parameter boxes. Samples, in this
context, refer to the smallest measurable unit in digital audio, and not to the audio files themselves,
which we more commonly refer to as “samples.“

Sample Start — The time value where playback will begin. If the volume envelope’s Attack parameter
is set to a high value (slow attack), the audible result may begin some time later than the value shown
here.

Sample End — The time value where playback will end (unless a loop is enabled), even if the volume
envelope has not ended.

Sustain Mode — The optional Sustain Loop defines a region of the sample where playback will be
repeated while the note is in the sustain stage of its envelope. Activating the Sustain Loop also allows
the Release Loop to be enabled. This creates several playback options:

No Sustain Loop — Playback proceeds linearly until either the Sample End is reached or the

volume envelope completes its release stage.

Sustain Loop Enabled — Playback proceeds linearly until Loop End is reached, when it jumps
immediately to Loop Start and continues looping. If Release Mode is OFF, looping will continue inside
the Sustain Loop until the volume envelope has completed its release stage.

Back-and-Forth Sustain Loop Enabled — Playback proceeds to Loop End, then reverses until it

reaches Loop Start, then proceeds again towards Loop End. If Release Mode is OFF, this pattern
continues until the volume envelope has completed its release stage.

Link — Enabling the Link switch sets Sample Start equal to Loop Start. Note that the Sample Start
parameter box doesn’t lose its original value — it simply becomes disabled so that it can be recalled
with a single click.

Loop Start — The Sustain Loop’s start point, measured in samples.

Loop End — The Sustain Loop’s end point, measured in samples.

Release Mode — Whenever the Sustain Loop is active, Release Mode can also be enabled.

 — The volume envelope’s release stage is active, but will occur within the Sustain Loop, with

playback never proceeding beyond Loop End.

Release Enabled — When the volume envelope reaches its release stage, playback will proceed

linearly towards Sample End.

Release Loop Enabled — When the volume envelope reaches its release stage, playback will

proceed linearly until reaching Sample End, where it jumps immediately to Release Loop and
continues looping until the volume envelope has completed its release stage.

Back-and-Forth Release Loop Enabled — When the volume envelope reaches its release stage,
playback will proceed linearly until reaching Sample End, then reverses until it reaches Release Loop,
then proceeds again towards Sample End. This pattern continues until the volume envelope has
completed its release stage.

Release Loop — sets the start position of the Release Loop. The end of the Release Loop is the Sample
End.

Sustain- and Release-Loop Crossfade (Crossfade) — Loop crossfades help remove clicks from loop
transitions. By default, Sampler uses constant-power fades at loop boundaries. But by turning off “Use
Constant Power Fade for Loops“ in the context menu, you can enable linear crossfades.

Sustain- and Release-Loop Detune (Detune) — Since loops are nothing more than oscillations, the
pitch of samples may shift within a loop, relative to the loop’s duration. Tip: this is especially
noticeable with very short loops. With Detune, the pitch of these regions can be matched to the rest of
the sample.

Interpolation (Interpol) — This is a global setting that determines the accuracy of transposed samples.
Be aware that raising the quality level above “Normal“ to “Good” or “Best” will place significant
demands on your CPU.

RAM Mode (RAM) — This is also a global control that loads the entire multisample into RAM. This
mode can give better performance when modulating start and end points, but loading large
multisamples into RAM will quickly leave your computer short of RAM for other tasks. In any case, it is
always recommended to have as much RAM in your computer as possible, as this can provide
significant performance gains.

Hovering the mouse over the waveform and right-clicking to access the context menu provides a
number of editing and viewing options. As with the context menu in the Sample Layer List, Show in
Browser, Manage Samples, Normalize Volumes and Normalize Pan are available. Additionally, you
can zoom in or out of playing or looping regions, depending on which Sustain and Loop Modes are
selected.

Finally, a few options remain on the far-right side of the Sample tab:

Vertical Zoom (slider) — Magnifies the waveform height in the sample display. This is for visual clarity
only, and does not affect the audio in any way.

B, M, L and R Buttons — These buttons stand for Both, Mono, Left and Right, and allow you to choose
which channels of the sample should be displayed.

28.10.7 The Pitch/Osc Tab

The Pitch/Osc Tab.

28.10.7.1 The Modulation Oscillator (Osc)

Sampler features one dedicated modulation oscillator per voice, which can perform frequency or
amplitude modulation (FM or AM) on the multisample. The oscillator is fully featured, with 21
waveforms (available in the Type chooser), plus its own loopable amplitude envelope for dynamic
waveshaping. Note that this oscillator performs modulation only — its output is never heard directly.
What you hear is the effect of its output upon the multisample.

FM — In this mode, the modulation oscillator will modulate the frequency of samples, resulting in more
complex and different-sounding waveforms.

AM — In this mode, the modulation oscillator will modulate the amplitude of samples. Subsonic
modulator frequencies result in slow or rapid variation in the volume level; audible modulator
frequencies result in composite waveforms.

The modulation oscillator is controlled via Initial, Peak, Sustain, End, Loop, Attack and Time <
Velocities parameters. For detailed information on how these work, see the Sample Playback section.
Additionally, the right side of the modulation oscillator section features the following controls:

Type — Choose the modulation oscillator’s waveform here.

Volume — This determines the intensity of the modulation oscillator’s sample modulation.

Vol < Vel — The modulation oscillator’s Volume parameter can be modified by the velocity of
incoming MIDI notes. This determines the depth of the modulation.

Fixed — When enabled, the modulation oscillator’s frequency will remain fixed at the rate determined
by the Freq and Multi parameters, and will not change in response to incoming MIDI notes.

Freq — With Fixed set to On, this rate is multiplied by the Multi parameter to determine the modulation
oscillator’s fixed frequency.

Multi — With Fixed set to On, the Freq parameter is multiplied by this amount to determine the
modulation oscillator’s fixed frequency.

Coarse — Coarse tuning of the modulation oscillator’s frequency (0.125-48). This is only available
when Fixed is set to Off.

Fine — Fine tuning of the modulation oscillator’s frequency (0-1000). This is only available when
Fixed is set to Off.

28.10.7.2 The Pitch Envelope

The pitch envelope modulates the pitch of the sample over time, as well as of the Modulation
Oscillator, if it is enabled. This is a multi-stage envelope with ADSR, Initial, Peak, and End levels, as
described in the Sample Playback section. The values of the envelope parameters can be adjusted via
the sliders, or by dragging the breakpoints in the envelope’s display.

On the lower-left of the Pitch Envelope section is the Amount slider. This defines the limits of the pitch
envelope’s influence, in semitones. The actual range depends upon the dynamics of the envelope
itself.

The right-hand side of this section contains five sliders and one chooser that are unrelated to the Pitch
Envelope, but can globally effect Sampler’s output:

Spread — When Spread is used, two detuned voices are generated per note. This also doubles the
processing requirements.

Transpose (Transp) — Global transpose amount, indicated in semitones.

Detune — Global detune amount, indicated in cents.

Key Zone Shift (Zn Shft) — This transposes MIDI notes in the Key Zone Editor only, so that different
samples may be selected for playback, even though they will adhere to the played pitch. Good for
getting interesting artifacts from multisamples.

Glide — The global Glide mode, used in conjunction with the Time parameter to smoothly transition
between pitches. ’Glide’ is a standard monophonic glide, while ’Portamento’ works polyphonically.

Time — Enabling a Glide mode produces a smooth transition between the pitch of played notes. This
parameter determines the length of the transition.

28.10.8 The Filter/Global Tab

The Filter/Global Tab.

28.10.8.1 The Filter

Sampler features a polyphonic filter with an optional integrated waveshaper. The filter section offers a
variety of filter types including low-pass, high-pass, band-pass, notch, and a special Morph filter.
Each filter can be switched between 12 and 24 dB slopes as well as a selection of analog-modeled
circuit behaviors developed in conjunction with Cytomic that emulate hardware filters found on some
classic analog synthesizers.

The Clean circuit option is a high-quality, CPU-efficient design that is the same as the filters used in EQ
Eight. This is available for all of the filter types.

The OSR circuit option is a state-variable type with resonance limited by a unique hard-clipping
diode. This is modeled on the filters used in a somewhat rare British monosynth, and is available for all
filter types.

The MS2 circuit option uses a Sallen-Key design and soft clipping to limit resonance. It is modeled on
the filters used in a famous semi-modular Japanese monosynth and is available for the low-pass and
high-pass filters.

The SMP circuit is a custom design not based on any particular hardware. It shares characteristics of
both the MS2 and PRD circuits and is available for the low-pass and high-pass filters.

The PRD circuit uses a ladder design and has no explicit resonance limiting. It is modeled on the filters
used in a legacy dual-oscillator monosynth from the United States and is available for the low-pass
and high-pass filters.

The most important filter parameters are the typical synth controls Frequency and Resonance.
Frequency determines where in the harmonic spectrum the filter is applied; Resonance boosts
frequencies near that point.

When using the low-pass, high-pass, or band-pass filter with any circuit type besides Clean, there is
an additional Drive control that can be used to add gain or distortion to the signal before it enters the
filter.

The Morph filter has an additional Morph control which sweeps the filter type continuously from low-
pass to band-pass to high-pass to notch and back to low-pass.

You can quickly snap the Morph control to a low-pass, band-pass, high-pass, or notch setting via
dedicated options in the context menu of the Morph slider.

To the right, the filter’s cutoff frequency can be modulated over time by a dedicated filter envelope.
This envelope works similarly to the envelopes in the Pitch/Osc tab, with Initial, Peak, Sustain and End
levels, ADSR, Loop mode and slope points. This area is toggled on/off with the F. Env button. The
Amount slider determines how much influence the filter envelope has on the filter’s cutoff frequency,
and needs to be set to a non-zero value for the envelope to have any effect.

Below the Filter is a waveshaper, which is toggled by clicking the Shaper button. Four different curves
can be chosen for the waveshaper in the Type selector: Soft, Hard, Sine and 4bit. Shaper’s overall
intensity can be controlled with the Amount slider. In addition, the signal flow direction can be
adjusted with the button above the waveshaper area: with the triangle pointing up, the signal passes
from the shaper to the filter; with the triangle pointing down, it passes from the filter to the shaper.

28.10.8.2 The Volume Envelope and Global Controls

The volume envelope is global, and defines the articulation of Sampler’s sounds with standard ADSR
(attack, decay, sustain, release) parameters. Please see the Sample Playback section for details on
these parameters.

This envelope can also be looped via the Loop chooser. When a Loop mode is selected, the Time/
Repeat slider becomes important. For Loop and Trigger modes, if a note is still held when the Decay
stage ends, the envelope will restart from its initial value. The time it takes to move from the Sustain
level to the initial value is defined by the Time parameter. For Beat and Sync modes, if a note is still
held after the amount set in the Repeat slider, the envelope will restart from its initial value.

The Pan slider is a global pan control (acting on all samples), while Pan < Rnd adds a degree of
randomness to the global pan position. Time (Global Time Envelope) will proportionally shrink or
expand the length of all envelopes in Sampler. Time < Key (Global Envelope Time < Key) will
proportionally shrink or expand the length of all envelopes in Sampler relative to the pitch of incoming
MIDI notes.

Finally, the Voices selector provides up to 32 simultaneous voices for each instance of Sampler. Voice
retriggering can optionally be enabled by activating the Retrigger button (R) to the right of the Voices
chooser. When activated, notes which are already playing will be retriggered, rather than generating
an additional voice. Turning Retrigger on can save CPU power, especially if a note with a long
release time is being triggered very often and very quickly.

28.10.9 The Modulation Tab

The Modulation Tab.

The Modulation tab offers an additional loopable envelope, plus three LFOs, all capable of
modulating multiple parameters, including themselves. Each LFO can be free running, or synced to the
Live Set’s tempo, and LFOs 2 and 3 can produce stereo modulation effects.

28.10.9.1 The Auxiliary Envelope

On the left, the Auxiliary (Aux) envelope functions much like the envelopes in the Pitch/Osc tab, with
Initial, Peak, Sustain and End levels, ADSR, Loop mode and slope points. This envelope can be routed
to 29 destinations in both the A and B choosers. How much the Auxiliary envelope will modulate
destinations A and B is set in the two sliders to the right.

28.10.9.2 LFOs 1, 2 and 3

The remaining space of the Modulation tab contains three Low Frequency Oscillators (LFOs). As the
name implies, Sampler’s LFOs operate by applying a low-frequency (below 30 Hz) to a parameter in
order to modulate it. Engage any of these oscillators by clicking the LFO 1, LFO 2 or LFO 3 switches.

Type — Sampler’s LFOs have 6 different waveshapes available: Sine, Square, Triangle, Sawtooth
Down, Sawtooth Up, and Sample and Hold.

Rate — With Hz selected, the speed of the LFO is determined by the Freq slider to the right. With the
note head selected, the LFO will be synced to beat-time, adjustable in the Beats slider to the right.

Freq — The LFO’s rate in Hertz (cycles per second), adjustable from 0.01 to 30 Hz.

Beats — This sets the LFO’s rate in beat-time (64th notes to 8 bars).

LFO Attack (Attack) — This is the time needed for the LFO to reach maximum intensity. Use this, for
example, to gradually introduce vibrato as a note is held.

LFO Retrigger (Retrig) — Enabling Retrigger for an LFO will cause it to reset to its starting point, or
initial phase, on each new MIDI note. This can create hybrid LFO shapes if the LFO is retriggered
before completing a cycle.

LFO Offset (Offset) — This changes the starting point, or initial phase of an LFO, so that it begins at a
different point in its cycle. This can create hybrid LFO shapes if the LFO is retriggered before
completing a cycle.

LFO Rate < Key (Key) — Also known as keyboard tracking, non-zero values cause an LFO’s rate to
increase relative to the pitch of incoming MIDI notes.

LFO 1 has four sliders for quickly modulating global parameters:

Volume (Vol) — LFO 1 can modulate the global volume level. This slider determines the depth of the
modulation on a 0-100 scale.

Pan (Pan) — LFO 1 can modulate the global pan position. This slider determines the depth of the
modulation on a 0-100 scale.

Filter — LFO 1 can modulate the filters cutoff frequency (Freq in the Filter/Global tab). This slider
determines the depth of the modulation on a 0-24 scale.

Pitch — LFO 1 can modulate the pitch of samples. This slider determines the depth of the modulation
on a 0-100 scale.

LFO Stereo Mode (Stereo) — LFOs 2 and 3 can produce two types of stereo modulation: Phase or
Spin. In phase mode, the right and left LFO channels run at equal speed, and the Phase parameter is
used to offset the right channel from the left. In spin mode, the Spin parameter can make the right LFO
channel run up to 50% faster than the left.

Like the Auxiliary envelope, LFOs 2 and 3 contain A and B choosers, where you can route LFOs to
many destinations.
