---
id: 26.32.5
title: "Global Settings"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.32.5 Global Settings

Reverb’s Global Settings.

Predelay controls the delay time, in milliseconds, before the onset of the first early reflection. This
delays the reverberation relative to the input signal. One’s impression of the size of a real room
depends partly on this delay. Typical values for natural sounds range from 1 ms to 25 ms.

The Smooth chooser specifies the behavior of the Size parameter when its value is adjusted. If set to
None, the Diffusion Network’s delay times are changed immediately, which can cause artifacts when
changing the Size value. If set to Slow or Fast, new delay times are updated over a specific time
period, which results in a smoother sound when transitioning between values.

The Size parameter controls the room’s volume. At one extreme, a very large size will lend a shifting,
diffused delay effect to the reverb. The other extreme — a very small value — will give it a highly
colored, metallic feel.

The Decay control adjusts the time required for this reverb tail to drop to 1/1000th (-60 dB) of its
initial amplitude.

The Freeze control freezes the diffuse response of the input sound. When on, the reverberation will
sustain almost endlessly. Flat bypasses the high and low shelf filters when Freeze is on. If Flat is off, the
frozen reverberation will lose energy in the attenuated frequency bands, depending on the state of the
high and low shelving filters. Cut modifies Freeze by preventing the input signal from adding to the
frozen reverberation; when off, the input signal will contribute to the diffused amplitude.

The Stereo control determines the width of the output’s stereo image. At the highest setting of 120
degrees, each ear receives a reverberant channel that is independent of the other (this is also a
property of the diffusion in real rooms). The lowest setting mixes the output signal to mono.

The Density chooser controls the tradeoff between reverb quality and performance. Sparse uses
minimal CPU resources, while High delivers the richest reverberation.

26.32.6 Output

Reverb’s Output Section.

At the reverb output, you can vary the amplitude of reflections and diffusion with the Reflect and
Diffuse controls and adjust the effect’s overall Dry/Wet mix.
