---
id: 26.15.0.1
title: "Context Menu Options for EQ Eight"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.15.0.1 Context Menu Options for EQ Eight

Several of EQ Eight’s controls are only available via the device title bar’s context menu. These include:

•

Oversampling - enabling this option causes EQ Eight to internally process two times the current
sample rate, which allows for smoother filter behavior when adjusting high frequencies. There is
a slight increase in CPU usage with Oversampling enabled.

26.16 EQ Three

The EQ Three Effect.

If you have ever used a good DJ mixer you will know what this is: An EQ that allows you to adjust the
level of low, mid and high frequencies independently.

Each band can be adjusted from -infinite dB to +6 dB using the gain controls. This means that you can
completely remove, for example, the bass drum or bassline of a track, while leaving the other
frequencies untouched.

You can also turn on or off each band using the On/Off buttons located under the gain controls.
These buttons are especially handy if assigned to computer keys.

EQ Three gives you visual confirmation of the presence of a signal in each frequency band using three
LEDs. Even if a band is turned off, you can tell if there is something going on in it. The internal threshold
for the LEDs is set to -24 dB.

The frequency range of each band is defined via two crossover controls: FreqLo and FreqHi. If FreqLo
is set to 500 Hz and FreqHi to 2000 Hz, then the low band goes from 0 Hz to 500 Hz, the mid band
from 500 Hz to 2000 Hz and the high band from 2000 Hz up to whatever your soundcard or
sample rate supports.

A very important control is the 24 dB/48 dB switch. It defines how sharp the filters are cutting the
signal at the crossover frequency. The higher setting results in more drastic filtering, but needs more
CPU.

Note: The filters in this device are optimized to sound more like a good, powerful analog filter
cascade than a clean digital filter. The 48 dB Mode especially does not provide a perfect linear
transfer quality, resulting in a slight coloration of the input signal even if all controls are set to 0.00 dB.
This is typical behavior for this kind of filter, and is part of EQ Three’s unique sound. If you need a
more linear behavior choose 24 dB Mode or use the EQ Eight.
