---
id: 39.27
title: "Using Live’s Context Menu"
chapter: 39
---
# 39.27 Using Live’s Context Menu

40. Credits

1. Welcome to Live

1.1 The Ableton Team Says: Thank You

Live is the result of musicians wanting a better way to create, produce and perform music using a
computer. A great deal of effort has been put into making Live easy and fun to use, yet at the same
time capable of helping you create music with unlimited depth and sophistication. You can use this
manual as a reference to get familiar with all of Live’s features and workflows.

We hope you enjoy using Live and that it enhances your creative process.

Your Ableton Team.

2. First Steps

2.1 Installation and Authorization

Before getting started with Live, make sure you have the latest version of the software installed and
authorized. You can download the Live installer from your ableton.com User Account and then launch
it to install the software. Once installed, you can authorize Live. Note that each Live license comes
with two authorizations, so you can use the software on up to two computers, providing that you only
use one computer at a time.

2.2 Learn About Live

Live comes with a set of interactive lessons to take you step by step through the key features of the
program. The lessons are organized in a table of contents, which can be opened directly in the
program via the Help menu. We highly recommend following the lessons. Many users have told us
that the lessons helped them become familiar with the program very quickly.

We also recommend that you read the Live Concepts chapter, which encapsulates everything that Live
is and can do, and is therefore a worthwhile read for both beginners and experienced users. The
remaining chapters of this manual serve as in-depth reference for the material introduced in Live
Concepts.

2.2.1 Using the Info View

Live’s Info View displays the name and function of whatever you place the mouse over.

You can show or hide Info View by using the view control toggle in the bottom left corner of Live’s
window or by using the ? key.

The Info View and its Show/Hide Button.

You can also create your own text notes for tracks, clips, devices and more, by selecting “Edit Info
Text” in the context menu for the corresponding item. You can then type text into the Info View, which
will be saved and displayed in your Live Set.

2.3 Live’s Settings

The Settings window is where you can customize various settings for Live. Settings can be found in the
Options menu on Windows and in the Live menu on macOS. You can also open the Settings window
, (Mac).
using the shortcut Ctrl

, (Win) / Cmd

Live’s Settings are distributed over several tabs, which are described below.

2.3.1 Display & Input

The Display & Input Settings contain options for language and zoom settings, as well as keyboard
navigation and other application settings.

•

The Display section lets you select your preferred language for Live’s UI, as well as set the zoom
amount for Live’s main window (as well a second window, if open).

•

•

•
•

In Display Options, you can enable “Outline View in Focus” so that a border is drawn around
whatever view is currently selected. You can also choose how scroll bars are displayed, set the
Follow behavior for Arrangement View and clips, and show or hide user interface labels.
You can enable various keyboard workflow options in the Navigation and Keyboard section,
such as using the Tab key to move keyboard focus, having the Tab key navigate in a
section continuously, and using the arrow keys to move clips.
Mouse and Pen Input lets you enable Pen Tablet Mode, as well as permanent scrub areas.
You can restore any “Don’t Show Again” warning dialogs that you previously switched off in
the Application Options section.

2.3.2 Theme & Colors

In the Theme & Color Settings, you can determine the overall look of Live’s appearance.

•

•

•

You can choose a color scheme from the Theme section, or have Live follow the light/dark
mode settings from your OS. You can also set a warm, cool, or neutral tone to the color palette,
and enable high contrast if needed.
The Customization tab lets you determine the opacity of the grid lines in the UI, adjust the
brightness level, and set the color intensity and hue.
You can switch auto-assigning track colors on or off in the Track and Clip Colors section, or
choose a default color for all tracks. The Clip Color toggle can be set to generate random
colors or use the track’s color for new clips.

2.3.3 Audio

The Audio Settings options can be used to set up Live’s audio connections with the outside world via
an audio interface. This includes access to individual input/output devices, sample rate and latency
settings, and a testing section for audio interface calibration.

On macOS, you can use the Use System Device option in the audio output chooser to have the output
device in Live match what is selected in the macOS Sound System Settings. This way, you can
automatically use the same device for both Live and your operating system.

The Use System Device Option on macOS.

We suggest taking the time to follow the program’s built-in Setting up Audio I/O lesson, which will
walk you through all the steps required to set up and optimize the settings for any given system. To
access the lesson, use the Help View command from the Help menu.

2.3.4 Link, Tempo & MIDI

The Link, Tempo & MIDI Settings are used to help Live recognize external devices for three separate
and distinct purposes:

•

•

•

Syncing the program with external devices, either via Ableton Link, Tempo Follower, or MIDI.
Please see the Synchronizing with Link, Tempo Follower, and MIDI chapter for details.
Playing MIDI notes. To learn how to route an external device into Live for MIDI input, or how to
send MIDI to an external device, please see the Routing and I/O chapter.
Controlling parts of the interface remotely. This subject is covered in detail in the MIDI and Key
Remote Control chapter.

2.3.5 File & Folder

The File & Folder Settings are used to configure settings related to data handling, custom Max for Live
paths, and Live’s decoding cache.

2.3.6 Library

The Library Settings allow you to specify a default location for various types of installed files, including
Packs and your User Library, as well as whether or not samples and other files are self-contained
when saving Sets. You can also choose to show or hide synchronization options for Ableton Cloud
and Push in Live’s Places.
