---
id: 26.7.1
title: "Channel EQ Tips"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.7.1 Channel EQ Tips

You can use Channel EQ to further shape the output of a reverb effect in a device chain.

You can also shape the sound of a single drum or an entire drum kit, by placing an instance of
Channel EQ onto one or multiple Drum Rack pads.

Adding an instance of Saturator after Channel EQ in a device chain allows you to simulate the
analog nonlinearities of a mixer channel strip. In such cases, boosting the low end considerably
would also lead to increased distortion, similar to the behavior of analog mixing desks.

26.8 Chorus-Ensemble

The Chorus-Ensemble Effect.

Chorus-Ensemble offers a classic two-delay line chorus with an optional third delay line mode. With a
wide variety of tools for thickening sounds, creating flanging and vibrato effects, this device also
allows you to easily recreate string ensemble chorus sounds.

Three different modes are provided, which can be chosen in the display: Classic, Ensemble, and
Vibrato.

Classic mode creates a thickened sound by adding two time-modulated delayed signals to the input.
Use it for a classic chorus sound, adding light motion to your audio signal.

Ensemble mode is inspired by a thick three-delay line chorus pedal used in the ’70s. Ensemble mode
is based on and shares controls with Classic mode, but creates richer, smoother, and more intense
chorus sound by using three delayed signals with evenly split modulation phase offsets.

Vibrato mode applies stronger modulation than a chorus to create pitch variation. The shape of the
modulation waveform can morph seamlessly from a sine to a triangle, and be used to create well-
known “police siren” sounds.

In addition to the mode selector buttons, the display also provides access to a high-pass filter and the
Width parameter. Width is active in Classic and Ensemble modes, but while in Vibrato mode, this
parameter is replaced by Offset and Shape controls.

When enabled, the high-pass filter reduces the chorus effect on signal components below the
frequency set by the High-Pass Frequency slider, ranging from 20 Hz to 2000 Hz.

Width sets the stereo width of the wet signal, which in turn adjusts the chorus level balance between
the mid and side channels. At 0% the signal will be mono, at 100% the balance is equal, and at
200% the chorus level is twice as loud in the sides as in the middle. This is used for maintaining the
level of the effect across the stereo field, which can be helpful during mixing.

When using Vibrato mode, Offset adjusts the amount of phase offset between the waveforms for the
left and right channel. At 180°, the channels will be perfectly out of phase. Shape enables you to
change the shape of the modulation waveform between a sine and a triangle.

Global parameters available include Rate, Amount, Feedback, Output, Warmth and Dry/Wet.

Rate sets the modulation rate in Hertz, and can be adjusted either with the dial or by dragging up or
down in the display. Turn up Rate for a more drastic chorus sound, or keep it low for more gentle
phasing.

Amount adjusts the amplitude of the modulation signals that affects delay times. Higher values result in
a stronger time deviation from the unmodulated time setting.

Feedback sets the amount of each channel’s output that is fed back to its input. Increasing this sounds
more extreme and tends to increase upper harmonic material, and will also create audible delays if
playback is stopped. The feedback signal can be inverted using the Ø button, which results in a
“hollow” sound when combined with high feedback values.

Output sets the amount of gain applied to the processed signal.

Warmth adds slight distortion and filtering for a warmer sound. Turn it up for more crunch!

Dry/Wet adjusts the balance between the processed and dry signals. Set it to 100% when using
Chorus-Ensemble in a return track. Note that this is disabled in Vibrato mode.
