---
id: 6.3
title: "Transport and Playback"
chapter: 6
---
# 6.3 Transport and Playback

The transport controls in the Control Bar trigger playback of the Arrangement.

You can click the Play button to start playback; to stop playback, click the Stop button. Alternatively,
you can use the space bar to toggle playback on or off.

The Play and Stop Buttons in the Control Bar.

It is also possible to map computer keyboard keys or MIDI messages to the transport controls, which
lets you set up a specific configuration for triggering playback as needed.

The flashing blue insert marker on a track determines where playback starts. By default, the marker is
at the start of the Arrangement. You can click anywhere within a track to move the insert marker and
set a new play position. To return the insert marker to the starting play position, you can double-click
the Stop button or press the Home key (Win) or Function + left arrow key (Mac).

Arrangement Playback Begins from the Insert Marker.

To continue playback from where it last stopped, rather than from the insert marker, hold Shift
while pressing the space bar.

The play position is also accessible via the Control Bar’s Arrangement Position fields.

Set the Play Position in the Arrangement Position Fields.

The Arrangement Position fields show the play position in bars-beats-sixteenths. When one of the
fields is selected, the value can be adjusted using a few different methods: - Use the mouse to adjust
the value by dragging up or down. - Type a number and then press Enter . - Use the up and down
arrow keys to increase or decrease the value.

Adjusting the Arrangement Position fields automatically moves the insert marker.

You can also launch playback using the scrub area above the tracks. By default, the Permanent Scrub
Areas option is enabled in Live’s Display & Input Settings, which lets you click anywhere in the scrub
area to start playback from that point.

Use the Scrub Area to Launch Playback.

When clicking between different points in the scrub area, the jump between triggered play positions is
quantized based on the Quantization Menu’s value in the Control Bar. You can also hold the left
mouse button down on a specific point in the scrub area to play a repeated portion of the
Arrangement based on the global launch quantization value.

Even if the Permanent Scrub Areas option is switched off, you can still scrub through the Arrangement
by Shift -clicking anywhere in the scrub area or in the beat-time ruler.

The editor in the Clip View also has its own scrub area in individual clips that can be used to trigger
playback.

To ensure that MIDI notes play even if playback starts after the beginning of a note, Live will chase
MIDI notes by default. You can also deactivate or reactivate this behavior using the Chase MIDI
Notes command in the Options menu.
