---
id: 26.14.3
title: "Character Tab"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.14.3 Character Tab

Echo’s Character tab contains parameters that control dynamics and add imperfections to your sound.

Echo’s Character Tab.

Gate enables a gate at Echo’s input. It mutes the signal components below its threshold. Threshold sets
the threshold level that incoming audio signals must exceed in order to open the gate. Release sets
how long it takes for the gate to close after the signal has dropped below the threshold.

When Ducking is enabled, the wet signal is proportionally reduced as long as there is an input signal.
Ducking begins to affect the output signal when the input level exceeds the set Threshold. Release sets
how long it takes for ducking to stop after the input signal drops below the threshold.

When enabled, Noise introduces noise to simulate the character of vintage equipment. You can adjust
the Amount of noise added to the signal, and Morph between different types of noise.

When enabled, Wobble adds an irregular modulation of the delay time to simulate tape delays. You
can adjust the Amount of wobble added to the signal, and Morph between different types of wobble
modulation.

Repitch causes a pitch variation when changing the delay time, similar to the behavior of hardware
delay units. When Repitch is disabled, changing the delay time creates a crossfade between the old
and new delay times.

Note that in order to save CPU, the Echo device turns itself off at least eight seconds after its input
stops producing sound. However, Echo will not switch off if both the Noise and Gate parameters are
enabled.
