---
id: 10.6
title: "Folding and Scales"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.6 Folding and Scales

The MIDI Note Editor includes folding options, which can be used to hide selected rows, or key tracks,
in the editor. These options apply to all MIDI clips in the Set, meaning that the available rows in each
clip in your Set will differ, depending on which notes exist in that clip.

The first folding option is Fold to Notes, which can be used to immediately hide all key tracks that do
not contain MIDI notes. This is very useful when working with percussion kits, for example, which are
oftentimes mapped out along a keyboard in sections corresponding to percussion type (e.g., snares
grouped together two octaves down from hi-hat cymbals). When editing a MIDI file created by such
a mapping, sometimes only one or two of each type of percussion sound is used, and it becomes
unnecessary to view the entire keyboard range.

The Fold to Notes option can be activated by pressing the Fold button located in the Clip View
header, by pressing the F shortcut key while the MIDI Note Editor is in focus, or via the View menu
entry.

The Fold Button Extracts Key Tracks Containing Notes.

If Fold to Notes is activated on a track containing a Drum Rack, only rows containing MIDI notes are
displayed. If the option is inactive, the key tracks for drum pads that contain devices are shown in the
MIDI Note Editor.

If Scale Mode is enabled for a clip, notes belonging to the selected scale are highlighted in the piano
ruler. This is useful for seeing at a glance which notes belong to that scale, allowing you to easily write
melodies within the chosen scale. Scale Mode can be toggled with a dedicated button in the Main
Clip Properties panel in the Clip View or in the Control Bar. To the right of the Scale Mode button,
Root Note and Scale Name choosers allow setting a root note and scale for the selected clip(s).

A MIDI Clip’s Scale Mode Settings.

By default, key tracks belonging to the selected scale are indicated through a highlight on the piano
ruler’s keys. If you want an even more noticeable indicator of which key tracks belong to the current
scale, you can use the Highlight Scales option. When active, key tracks within the selected scale are
highlighted in the MIDI Note Editor alongside the highlighted piano ruler’s keys, while the root note is

indicated by a prominent highlight in the piano ruler. Scale highlighting can be toggled by pressing
the Highlight Scale button in the Clip View header, by pressing the K shortcut key while the MIDI
Note Editor is in focus, or via the Highlight Scales context menu and Options menu entry. Scale
highlighting is applied globally.

Key Tracks Belonging to the Selected Scale Are Highlighted.

When multiple clips with different scale settings are selected, any foreground clip will influence the
scale settings for newly created clips. If Scale Mode is disabled, newly-created MIDI clips will inherit
the most recently selected clip’s scale setting, but the scale will remain inactive.

You can set a preference for spelling a clip’s notes with flats, sharps, or both, via the piano ruler’s
context menu. When Scale Mode is not enabled, this setting applies to all notes, but when Scale
Mode is enabled, this preference only applies to notes which are outside of the chosen scale; notes
within the scale will maintain their proper accidentals. An additional “Auto” option automatically
selects flats or sharps based on the position of the root note in the circle of fifths. Note that it is also
possible to display the notes as MIDI note numbers instead of pitches.

Setting a Preference for Spelling a Clip’s Notes.

When a scale is active in a clip, another folding option becomes available: Fold to Scale, toggled by
pressing the Scale button in the Clip View header, by pressing the G shortcut key while the MIDI
Note Editor is in focus, or via the View menu entry. Activating the Fold to Scale option will immediately
hide all key tracks that do not belong to the scale specified for the clip. Note that if you have already
added notes on the key tracks that don’t belong to the active scale, those key tracks will still be
displayed, even when the Fold to Scale option is active.

This option is useful as a melodic composition reference for selecting complimentary notes. It can be
especially helpful if you are not confident in your knowledge of music theory and want to compose
melodies without constantly adjusting note placement until the sound “feels right.”

Key Tracks Belonging to the Current Scale Displayed After Pressing the Scale Button.
