---
id: 6.5
title: "Time Signature Changes"
chapter: 6
---
# 6.5 Time Signature Changes

Live’s time signature can be changed at any point in the Arrangement using time signature markers. To
add a marker at the current insert marker position, use the Insert Time Signature Change command via
the Create menu or the scrub area’s context menu.

Any time signature with a one- or two-digit numerator and a denominator of 1, 2, 4, 8 or 16 can be
used as a value for a marker. The numbers must be separated by a delimiter such as a slash, comma,
period, or any number of spaces.

You can also type or adjust time signature values using the Time Signature Numerator and
Denominator fields in the Control Bar. This will change the time signature at the current play location,
and works either with the transport stopped or during playback.

When the Arrangement contains time signature changes, the time signature fields show an automation
LED in the upper left corner.

The Time Signature Fields.

Time signature markers appear just below the beat-time ruler. Note that this marker area is hidden if a
Set contains no meter changes.

Time Signature Changes.

Time signature markers can be moved with the mouse or left and right arrow keys. You can edit the
time signature values for selected markers via the Edit Time Signature command in the Edit menu or the
scrub area’s context menu, or by using the shortcut Ctrl
time signature marker, use the Delete key or the Delete command in the Edit menu.

R (Mac). To delete a

R (Win) / Cmd

Time signature markers are not quantized; they may be placed anywhere in the timeline, and their
positioning is only constrained by the editing grid. This means that it is possible to place meter
changes in “impossible“ places — such as before the end of the previous measure. Doing so creates a
fragmentary bar, which is represented in the scrub area by a crosshatched region. Live is happy to
leave these incomplete measures as they are, but if you’d like your Set to conform to the rules of music
theory, you can choose one of the context menu options for “correcting“ incomplete bars.

A Fragmentary Bar and its Context Menu Options.

Delete Fragmentary Bar Time deletes the duration of the fragmentary bar from the Arrangement,
thereby moving any audio or MIDI clips on either side of the deleted area closer together in the
timeline. The next time signature marker will now fall on the expected barline.

Complete Fragmentary Bar inserts time at the beginning of the fragmentary bar, so that it becomes
complete. The next time signature marker will now fall on the expected barline.

Please note that both of these options affect all tracks — deleting and inserting time changes the
length of the entire Arrangement.

When importing a MIDI file into the Arrangement, you’ll be given an option to import any time
signature information that was saved with the file. If you choose to do this, Live will automatically
create time signature markers in the correct places. This makes it very easy to work with complex
music created in other sequencer or notation software.
