---
id: 10.8
title: "Multi-Clip Editing"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.8 Multi-Clip Editing

In the MIDI Note Editor, you can view and access notes in multiple MIDI clips at the same time. This
helps you to see melodic and rhythmic relationships between different clips when creating and
refining musical ideas, and allows you to edit material across separate tracks and scenes more
quickly. In addition to editing notes across multiple clips, you can also modify various parameters for
the selected clips.

While multi-clip editing is useful for looking at clips across different tracks, it can also come in handy
when you need to compare and edit multiple clips within the same track. For example, you can create
evolving pattern progressions by adding notes to a clip, then making a variation to the clip in the
following scene and so on, while maintaining an overview of the other clips in the track.

When multiple MIDI clips are selected:

•

•

The notes from these clips will be shown together in the MIDI Note Editor. You can select and
edit notes from multiple selected clips at the same time, or use Focus Mode to edit notes in a
single clip while notes from other clips are still in view.
Loop bars will appear above the MIDI Note Editor. Each loop bar represents a different clip in
the current selection, and the colors of the loop bars match the color of the clip. Clicking on a
clip’s note or loop bar switches to that clip for editing.

Multi-Clip Loop Bars in the MIDI Note Editor.

•

•

•

•

•
•

•

You can adjust the loop length for any single clip by clicking and dragging its loop bar marker.
You can also select and edit loop bars from any of the selected clips simultaneously, by clicking
or dragging their loop markers while pressing the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) key. Using the
Shift key allows you to select contiguous loop bars. Note: With Focus Mode enabled, it is
not possible to select more than one loop bar at a time, and any existing multi-selection is
ignored.
You can duplicate selected loop bars using the context menu option or the Ctrl
Cmd

D (Win) /

D (Mac) keyboard shortcut.

The title bar will show the name of the clip selected for editing. This can be particularly useful for
identifying different clips with the same color. Note: If a clip has no name, the title bar will
display the name of the track containing the clip instead.
Certain controls in the Clip View panels are editable for all selected clips. These controls
include loop, time signature, groove, and scale settings.
Fold to Notes and Fold to Scale can be used for all selected clips.
Actions in Velocity or Chance Editor are only ever applied to a single clip at a time. The
velocity and probability markers are displayed for the foreground clip, not for all clips. It is not
possible to make changes to velocity or probability for all notes in all selected clips.
You can resize the height of the loop bars by clicking and dragging vertically directly above the
multi-clip title bar’s scrub area.

Note that multi-clip editing works differently depending on whether you are working in the Session
View or in the Arrangement View.

10.8.1 Focus Mode

Focus Mode allows you to select a single clip to edit while viewing multiple clips. Focus Mode can be
toggled via the Focus button or the N keyboard shortcut. Holding N while editing with the mouse
toggles Focus Mode momentarily. Multi-clip editing functions differently depending on whether Focus
Mode is enabled or not.

The Focus Button Toggles Focus Mode.

When Focus Mode is enabled:

•

•

•
•

•

•

•

The active clip’s notes will be shown in that clip’s color, while the inactive clips’ notes will be
shown in gray.
The active clip’s loop bar will be shown in the clip color, while the inactive ones will be shown
in gray. Whenever clicked, the active clip’s loop bar will be shown in black. You can click away
from the loop bar anyway on the active clip’s timeline to return the clip’s loop bar to the clip
color while maintaining the clip in focus.
The name of the active clip is displayed below the loop bars.
Hovering the mouse over an inactive clip’s loop bar will reveal that clip’s color and notes,
helping you to choose a different clip in the current selection to edit. Clicking on a clip’s note or
loop bar switches to that clip for editing.
Any clip and note editing operations available in the Clip View in the MIDI Note Editor are
only available for editing the active clip.
The scale displayed in the Clip View is the scale of the currently selected clip. This scale affects
the Fold to Scale option.
Enabling Fold to Notes will fold all key tracks outside all the selected clips.

When Focus Mode is disabled:

•
•

All notes are displayed with their clip’s color, as all notes are active.
A clip’s loop bar will turn black when clicking on it, which then allows you to randomize
Velocity or Chance for notes within that clip by first-clicking. The non-selected loop brace will
display the color of its clip.

•

•

•

•

•

The root note and scale name for the currently selected clips are only displayed in the Clip View
if they are the same across all clips. Otherwise, an asterisk is shown where different root notes
or scale names are chosen.
Any clip and note editing operations available in the Clip View in the MIDI Note Editor are
available for all selected clips.
Notes can be cut or copied from multiple clips and inserted into the same set of clips, as long
as the clip selection/foreground clip has not changed, or into a different clip once that new clip
has been selected.
Note editing functions (e.g. copy, cut, paste, delete) can be used when working with note
selections across clips and loop boundaries.
Time in the MIDI Note Editor can be selected across loop and clip boundaries.

10.8.2 Multi-Clip Editing in the Session View

In the Session View, you can select and view up to eight MIDI clips at the same time, all of which must
be looped. In the MIDI Note Editor, loop bars are ordered vertically (first by track, and then by
scene).

If multiple clips of different lengths are selected, the MIDI Note Editor will show as many loop
iterations as necessary for the clips to realign. The part of the timeline that falls outside of a clip’s loop
area will be marked in a darker version of the clip color. When you hover over a clip, loop start and
end will be represented by black vertical lines in the MIDI Note Editor. If a clip’s start marker is set
before the loop start, the loop markers for the clip will be shifted accordingly to represent this.

10.8.3 Multi-Clip Editing in the Arrangement View

In the Arrangement View, it is possible to select and view MIDI clips from up to eight tracks, across a
selection of time. In the MIDI Note Editor, loop bars are ordered vertically by track and horizontally
by time.

Notes can be drawn continually across clip boundaries, except in Focus Mode.

The MIDI Note Editor will not show silence before or after the selection of clips – instead, it will fit its
display range to show the beginning of the first clip up to the end of the last clip in the selection. If the
selection contains looped and unlooped clips, the Loop button in the Clip View will appear half
colored.

11. MIDI Tools

MIDI Tools open further possibilities when it comes to working with MIDI content. These scale-aware
utilities can be accessed via the Transform and Generate panels of the Clip View. While
Transformations are aimed at performing targeted operations on existing MIDI notes, Generators offer
more exploratory tools, resulting in the creation of new material.

Transformation Tools modify various note properties of existing notes, including MPE data. They
require a selection of notes as input for the transformation.

MPE MIDI Tools are a subset of Transformations and can be used to add note expression or transform
existing expression data. You can view the results of applying these MIDI Tools in the MIDI Note
Editor’s MPE view mode.

Generative Tools do not use any input and instead add new notes to the clip loop or time selection.
Note that if there are already notes in the clip or time selection, the generated notes will replace the
existing notes.

Transformations and Generators are further divided into native MIDI Tools and Max for Live MIDI
Tools. Native MIDI Tools are built into Live and their properties cannot be edited. In contrast, the
bundled Max for Live MIDI Tools can be edited, and you can also build additional MIDI Tools or
install MIDI Tools from third-party creators to further expand your toolset for note transformation and
generation. The Max for Live MIDI Tools you built or saved can be quickly located in the browser with
a dedicated MIDI Tools filter group or the MIDI Tool tag in the Content filter group.
