---
id: 10.8.3
title: "Multi-Clip Editing in the Arrangement View"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.8.3 Multi-Clip Editing in the Arrangement View

In the Arrangement View, it is possible to select and view MIDI clips from up to eight tracks, across a
selection of time. In the MIDI Note Editor, loop bars are ordered vertically by track and horizontally
by time.

Notes can be drawn continually across clip boundaries, except in Focus Mode.

The MIDI Note Editor will not show silence before or after the selection of clips – instead, it will fit its
display range to show the beginning of the first clip up to the end of the last clip in the selection. If the
selection contains looped and unlooped clips, the Loop button in the Clip View will appear half
colored.

11. MIDI Tools

MIDI Tools open further possibilities when it comes to working with MIDI content. These scale-aware
utilities can be accessed via the Transform and Generate panels of the Clip View. While
Transformations are aimed at performing targeted operations on existing MIDI notes, Generators offer
more exploratory tools, resulting in the creation of new material.

Transformation Tools modify various note properties of existing notes, including MPE data. They
require a selection of notes as input for the transformation.

MPE MIDI Tools are a subset of Transformations and can be used to add note expression or transform
existing expression data. You can view the results of applying these MIDI Tools in the MIDI Note
Editor’s MPE view mode.

Generative Tools do not use any input and instead add new notes to the clip loop or time selection.
Note that if there are already notes in the clip or time selection, the generated notes will replace the
existing notes.

Transformations and Generators are further divided into native MIDI Tools and Max for Live MIDI
Tools. Native MIDI Tools are built into Live and their properties cannot be edited. In contrast, the
bundled Max for Live MIDI Tools can be edited, and you can also build additional MIDI Tools or
install MIDI Tools from third-party creators to further expand your toolset for note transformation and
generation. The Max for Live MIDI Tools you built or saved can be quickly located in the browser with
a dedicated MIDI Tools filter group or the MIDI Tool tag in the Content filter group.
