---
id: 10.8.1
title: "Focus Mode"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.8.1 Focus Mode

Focus Mode allows you to select a single clip to edit while viewing multiple clips. Focus Mode can be
toggled via the Focus button or the N keyboard shortcut. Holding N while editing with the mouse
toggles Focus Mode momentarily. Multi-clip editing functions differently depending on whether Focus
Mode is enabled or not.

The Focus Button Toggles Focus Mode.

When Focus Mode is enabled:

•

•

•
•

•

•

•

The active clip’s notes will be shown in that clip’s color, while the inactive clips’ notes will be
shown in gray.
The active clip’s loop bar will be shown in the clip color, while the inactive ones will be shown
in gray. Whenever clicked, the active clip’s loop bar will be shown in black. You can click away
from the loop bar anyway on the active clip’s timeline to return the clip’s loop bar to the clip
color while maintaining the clip in focus.
The name of the active clip is displayed below the loop bars.
Hovering the mouse over an inactive clip’s loop bar will reveal that clip’s color and notes,
helping you to choose a different clip in the current selection to edit. Clicking on a clip’s note or
loop bar switches to that clip for editing.
Any clip and note editing operations available in the Clip View in the MIDI Note Editor are
only available for editing the active clip.
The scale displayed in the Clip View is the scale of the currently selected clip. This scale affects
the Fold to Scale option.
Enabling Fold to Notes will fold all key tracks outside all the selected clips.

When Focus Mode is disabled:

•
•

All notes are displayed with their clip’s color, as all notes are active.
A clip’s loop bar will turn black when clicking on it, which then allows you to randomize
Velocity or Chance for notes within that clip by first-clicking. The non-selected loop brace will
display the color of its clip.

•

•

•

•

•

The root note and scale name for the currently selected clips are only displayed in the Clip View
if they are the same across all clips. Otherwise, an asterisk is shown where different root notes
or scale names are chosen.
Any clip and note editing operations available in the Clip View in the MIDI Note Editor are
available for all selected clips.
Notes can be cut or copied from multiple clips and inserted into the same set of clips, as long
as the clip selection/foreground clip has not changed, or into a different clip once that new clip
has been selected.
Note editing functions (e.g. copy, cut, paste, delete) can be used when working with note
selections across clips and loop boundaries.
Time in the MIDI Note Editor can be selected across loop and clip boundaries.
