---
id: 7.2.1
title: "Editing Scene Tempo and Time Signature Values"
chapter: 7
---
# 7.2.1 Editing Scene Tempo and Time Signature Values

Dragging the left edge of the Main track’s title header reveals the Scene Tempo and Scene Time
Signature controls, which allow you to assign a tempo and/or time signature to a selected scene.
These controls are hidden by default. The project will automatically adjust to these parameters when
the scene is launched. To change a scene’s tempo or time signature values:

•
•

Click and drag up or down in any of these fields.
Click and type a number, then hit Enter .

Note that you can also edit tempo and time signature values for scenes in the Scene View.

Any tempo can be used, as long as it is within the range allowed by Live’s Tempo control (20-999
BPM). Any time signature can be used, provided it has a numerator between 1 and 99 and a
denominator with a beat value of 1, 2, 4, 8 or 16.

When enabled, the Scene Tempo and Scene Time Signature controls can be disabled and reset via
the Return to Default context menu entry, or pressing the Delete key. You can also disable the
controls by double-clicking them.

You can use the left and right arrow keys to quickly navigate from a selected clip slot or scene to the
Scene Tempo and Scene Time Signature controls. When editing a scene name, or a tempo or time
signature value in the Main track using the keyboard, the Tab or Shift
navigates to the next or previous control, to allow editing these controls quickly. The navigation moves
to the next or previous scene when reaching the last or first control in a scene.

Tab keyboard shortcut

Note: When a Scene Tempo/Time Signature control is selected in the Main track, pressing Enter
once will select the respective scene. Pressing Enter again launches the selected scene.

These Scenes Will Change the Tempo and Time Signature.

Scenes with assigned tempo and/or time signature changes will have a colored Scene Launch button.

Note: Sets that were created in older Live versions than Live 11, with tempo and/or time signature
values specified by scene names, will have their values carried over to the Scene Tempo and/or Time
Signature controls. When opening these Sets in newer versions of Live, the Main track’s width is
adjusted so that the Scene Tempo and Scene Time Signature controls are visible.
