---
id: 7.2
title: "Tracks and Scenes"
chapter: 7
---
# 7.2 Tracks and Scenes

Each vertical column, or track, can play only one clip at a time. It therefore makes sense to put a set of
clips that are supposed to be played alternatively in the same columns: parts of a song, variations of a
drum loop, etc.

Resized Session View Tracks.

For convenient access to more clips at once, you can resize Session View tracks by clicking and
dragging at the edges of their title bars. Tracks can be narrowed this way so that only Clip Launch
buttons and essential track controls are visible. Note that you can resize all Session View tracks at
once by holding Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) while resizing a single track.

A Scene in the Session View.

Note that pressing the 0 key while a Session View track header is selected will deactivate that track.

The horizontal rows are called scenes. The Scene Launch buttons are located in the rightmost column,
which represents the Main track. To launch every clip in a row simultaneously, click on the associated
Scene Launch button. This can be very useful in organizing the live performance of a song with
multiple parts. Note that you can cancel the launch of any previously triggered scene by clicking the
Cancel Scene Launch entry in the Main track’s context menu.

The scene below a launched scene will automatically be selected as the next to be launched unless
the Select Next Scene on Launch option in the Launch Settings is set to “Off.“ This allows you to
trigger scenes from top to bottom without having to select them first. Computer keys or a MIDI
controller can be used to launch scenes and scroll between them.

Scenes can be renamed using the Rename command in the Edit menu or the scene’s context menu.
One can quickly rename several scenes by executing the Rename command and using the computer’s
Tab key to move from one scene to the next. You can also enter your own info text for a scene via

the Edit Info Text command in the Edit menu or in the scene’s context menu. The context menu also
contains a color palette where you can choose a custom scene color.

Scenes can be reordered by drag-and-drop. Multiple adjacent or nonadjacent scenes can be
selected at once by Shift -clicking or Ctrl -clicking, respectively. If you drag a selection of
nonadjacent scenes, they will be collapsed together when dropped. To move nonadjacent scenes
without collapsing, use Ctrl + the up or down arrow keys instead of the mouse.

Each scene has its own number, which is displayed in a column at the right-hand side. Scene numbers
are determined by their position; when a scene is moved, its number changes according to the scene’s
new position.

7.2.1 Editing Scene Tempo and Time Signature Values

Dragging the left edge of the Main track’s title header reveals the Scene Tempo and Scene Time
Signature controls, which allow you to assign a tempo and/or time signature to a selected scene.
These controls are hidden by default. The project will automatically adjust to these parameters when
the scene is launched. To change a scene’s tempo or time signature values:

•
•

Click and drag up or down in any of these fields.
Click and type a number, then hit Enter .

Note that you can also edit tempo and time signature values for scenes in the Scene View.

Any tempo can be used, as long as it is within the range allowed by Live’s Tempo control (20-999
BPM). Any time signature can be used, provided it has a numerator between 1 and 99 and a
denominator with a beat value of 1, 2, 4, 8 or 16.

When enabled, the Scene Tempo and Scene Time Signature controls can be disabled and reset via
the Return to Default context menu entry, or pressing the Delete key. You can also disable the
controls by double-clicking them.

You can use the left and right arrow keys to quickly navigate from a selected clip slot or scene to the
Scene Tempo and Scene Time Signature controls. When editing a scene name, or a tempo or time
signature value in the Main track using the keyboard, the Tab or Shift
navigates to the next or previous control, to allow editing these controls quickly. The navigation moves
to the next or previous scene when reaching the last or first control in a scene.

Tab keyboard shortcut

Note: When a Scene Tempo/Time Signature control is selected in the Main track, pressing Enter
once will select the respective scene. Pressing Enter again launches the selected scene.

These Scenes Will Change the Tempo and Time Signature.

Scenes with assigned tempo and/or time signature changes will have a colored Scene Launch button.

Note: Sets that were created in older Live versions than Live 11, with tempo and/or time signature
values specified by scene names, will have their values carried over to the Scene Tempo and/or Time
Signature controls. When opening these Sets in newer versions of Live, the Main track’s width is
adjusted so that the Scene Tempo and Scene Time Signature controls are visible.

7.2.2 Scene View

The Scene View is where scene properties can be set and adjusted.

The Scene View.

Selecting one or multiple scenes, clicking a Scene Tempo or Scene Time Signature control, or clicking
the Main track title bar opens the Scene View.

In the upper section of the Scene View, the Tempo and Signature sliders allow you to edit tempo and
time signature values for the selected scene(s). More information about these controls is available in
the Editing Scene Tempo and Time Signature Values section of this chapter.

Tempo and Time Signature Controls in the Scene View.

In the lower section of the Scene View, controls allow you to edit Follow Actions for the selected
scene(s).

Follow Action Controls in the Scene View.

When a single scene is selected, the Scene View’s title bar displays the name and number (and color,
if assigned) of that scene. Note that when multiple scenes are selected, the Scene View’s title bar
indicates the number of selected scenes instead.

In the context menu of the Scene View’s title bar, two options allow you to rename a scene, and also
choose a custom scene color from the color palette. Note that this also applies when multiple scenes
are selected.
