---
id: 28.7.1
title: "Sample Slots"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.7.1 Sample Slots

Drag and drop samples into any of Impulse’s sample slots from the browser or the Session and
Arrangement Views. Alternatively, each sample slot features a Hot-Swap button for hot-swapping
samples. Loaded samples can be deleted using the Backspace (Win) or Delete (Mac) key.

Imported samples are automatically mapped onto your MIDI keyboard, providing that it is plugged in
and acknowledged by Live. C3 on the keyboard will trigger the leftmost sample, and the other
samples will follow suit in the octave from C3 to C4. Impulse’s eight slots will appear labeled in the
MIDI Editor’s key tracks when the Fold button is active, even if the given key track is void of MIDI
notes. Mapping can be transposed from the default by applying a Pitch device, or it can be
rearranged by applying a Scale device.

Each of the eight samples has a proprietary set of parameters, located in the area below the sample
slots and visible when the sample is clicked. Adjustments to sample settings are only captured once
you hit a new note — they do not affect currently playing notes. Note that this behavior also defines
how Impulse reacts to parameter changes from clip envelopes or automation, which are applied once
a new note starts. If you want to achieve continuous changes as a note plays, you may want to use
the Simpler instrument.

Slot 8’s parameters also include a Link button, located in the lower left corner, which links slot 8 with
slot 7. Linking the two slots allows slot 7’s activation to stop slot 8’s playback, and vice versa. This was
designed with a specific situation in mind (but can, of course, be used for other purposes): Replicating
the way that closed hi-hats will silence open hi-hats.

Each slot can be played, soloed, muted or hot-swapped using controls that appear when the mouse
hovers over it.
