---
id: 6.10
title: "Using the Editing Grid"
chapter: 6
---
# 6.10 Using the Editing Grid

To ease Arrangement editing, the cursor will snap to grid lines that represent the meter subdivisions of
the song tempo. The grid can be set to be either zoom-adaptive or fixed.

You can set the width of both zoom-adaptive and fixed grid lines using the context menu available in
either the Arrangement View track main lanes or the MIDI Note Editor in the Clip View.

The following shortcuts, also available as Options menu commands, allow you to quickly adjust the
grid:

•

Ctrl

1 (Win) / Cmd

1 (Mac) narrows the grid, doubling the density of the grid lines

2 (Mac) widens the grid, halving the density of the grid lines (e.g.,

(e.g., from eighth notes to sixteenth notes).
Ctrl

2 (Win) / Cmd
from eighth notes to quarter notes).
3 (Win) / Cmd
Ctrl

•

•

3 (Mac) toggles triplets mode; this would, for instance, change the

grid from eighth notes to eighth note triplets.
Ctrl

4 (Win) / Cmd

•

4 (Mac) turns grid snapping on or off. When the grid is off, the

cursor does not snap to meter subdivisions.
Ctrl

5 (Win) / Cmd

•

5 (Mac) toggles fixed and adaptive grid modes.

The current spacing between adjacent grid lines is displayed above the time ruler in the lower right
corner of the Arrangement View.

You can hold down the Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier while performing an action to bypass
grid snapping. If the grid is switched off, using the modifier will temporarily enable it.

6.11 Using the …Time Commands

Whereas the standard commands like Cut, Copy and Paste only affect the current selection, their “…
Time“ counterparts act upon all tracks by inserting and deleting time. This means that adding time
inserts the selected time across all tracks in the Arrangement, while removing time deletes the selected
time across all tracks. Any time signature markers within the selected region will also be affected.

•

Cut Time cuts a selection of time from the Arrangement, thereby moving any audio or MIDI clips
on either side of the cut area closer together in the timeline. This command reduces the length of
your Arrangement by whatever amount of time you have cut.

The Selected Area to be Cut (Left), The Result of the Cut Time Command (Right).

•

•

•

•

Paste Time places copied time into the Arrangement, thereby increasing its overall duration by
the length of time you have copied.
Duplicate Time places a copy of the selected timespan into the Arrangement, thereby
increasing its overall duration by the length of the selection.
Delete Time deletes a selection of time from the Arrangement, thereby moving any audio or
MIDI clips on either side of the deleted area closer together in the timeline. This command
reduces the length of your Arrangement by the amount of time you have deleted.
Insert Silence inserts a chosen amount of empty time into the Arrangement starting at the insert
marker.
