---
id: 18.9
title: "Performance Impact Track Indicators"
chapter: 18
---
# 18.9 Performance Impact Track Indicators

In the mixer section, it is possible to see each track’s impact on the CPU load using the Performance
Impact indicators. You can show or hide the indicators using the Mixer Controls submenu in the View
menu or the menu options in the mixer view control at the bottom right of Live’s window.

The Performance Impact Indicators.

Each track has its own CPU meter with six rectangles that light up to indicate the relative impact of that
track on the CPU level of the current Set. Freezing the track with the largest impact or removing
devices from that track will usually reduce the CPU load.

19. Recording New Clips

This chapter is about recording new clips from audio and MIDI input signals. Note that this is a
different kind of recording than the capturing of Session clips into the Arrangement.

For successful audio recording, please make sure the audio settings are set up properly. For more on
this, please see the built-in program lesson on setting up Audio Settings. Also, keep in mind that
devices such as microphones, guitars and turntables do not operate at line level, meaning that they
will need to have their levels boosted before they can be recorded. For these devices, you must
therefore use either an audio interface with a preamp, or an external preamp.

On MIDI tracks, it is possible to “capture” played material after you’ve played it, without the need to
press the Record button beforehand. This allows for more freedom and flexibility when you want to
improvise or experiment. For more information, please refer to the Capturing MIDI section.

19.1 Choosing an Input

A track will record whatever input source is shown in its In/Out section, which appears when the View
menu’s In/Out option is checked. In the Arrangement View, unfold and resize the track in order to
completely see the In/Out section.

The Track In/Out Section in the Arrangement (Left) and Session View (Right).

Audio tracks default to recording a mono signal from external input 1 or 2. MIDI tracks default to
recording all MIDI that is coming in through the active external input devices. The computer keyboard
can be activated as a pseudo-MIDI input device, allowing you to record MIDI even if no MIDI
controller hardware is currently available.

For every track, you can choose an input source other than the default: any mono or stereo external
input, a specific MIDI channel from a specific MIDI-in device or a signal coming from another track.
The Routing and I/O chapter describes these options in detail.

19.2 Arming (Record-Enabling) Tracks

Track Arm Buttons in the Arrangement (Left) and Session (Right) Mixers.

To select a track for recording, click on its Arm button. It doesn’t matter if you click a track’s Arm button
in the Session View or in the Arrangement View, since the two share the same set of tracks.

By default, armed tracks are monitored, meaning that their input is passed through their device chain
and to the output, so that you can listen to what is being recorded. This behavior is called “auto-
monitoring“ and you can change it to fit your needs.

If you are using a natively supported control surface, arming a MIDI track will automatically lock this
control surface to the instrument in the track.

Clicking one track’s Arm button unarms all other tracks unless the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac)
modifier is held. If multiple tracks are selected, clicking one of their Arm buttons will arm the other
tracks as well. Arming a track selects the track so you can readily access its devices in the Device
View.

19.3 Recording

Recording can be done in both the Session and the Arrangement Views. If you want to record onto
more than one track simultaneously and/or prefer viewing the recording linearly and in-progress, the
Arrangement View may be the better choice. If you want to break your recording seamlessly into
multiple clips or record while you are also launching clips in Live, use the Session View.

19.3.1 Recording Into the Arrangement

Recording Into the Arrangement.

1.

2.
3.

4.

5.

6.

Pressing the Control Bar’s Arrangement Record button starts recording. The specific behavior
depends on the state of the “Start Playback with Record” button in the Record, Warp & Launch
Settings. When enabled, recording starts as soon as the button is pressed. When disabled,
recording will not start until the Play button is pressed or Session clips are launched. Regardless
of the state of this preference, holding Shift while pressing Arrangement Record will engage
the opposite behavior.
Recording creates new clips in all tracks that have their Arm button on.
When MIDI Arrangement Overdub is enabled, new MIDI clips contain a mix of the signal
already in the track and the new input signal. Note that overdubbing only applies to MIDI
tracks.
To prevent recording prior to a punch-in point, activate the Punch-In switch. This is useful for
protecting the parts of a track that you do not want to record over and allows you to set up a
pre-roll or “warm-up“ time. The punch-in point is identical to the Arrangement Loop’s start
position.
Likewise, to prevent recording after the punch-out point, activate the Punch-Out switch. The
punch-out point is identical to the Arrangement Loop’s end position.
When you are recording into the Arrangement Loop, Live retains the audio recorded during
each pass.

You can later “unroll“ a loop recording, either by repeatedly using the Edit menu’s Undo command or
graphically in the Clip View: After loop recording, double-click on the new clip. In the Clip View’s
Sample Editor, you can see a long sample containing all audio recorded during the loop-recording
process. The Clip View’s loop brace defines the audio taken in the last pass; moving the markers left
lets you audition the audio from previous passes.

19.3.2 Recording Into Session Slots

You can record new clips, on the fly, into any Session slots.

Recording Into the Session View.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

Set the Global Quantization chooser to any value other than “None“ to obtain correctly cut
clips.
Activate the Arm button for the tracks onto which you want to record. Clip Record buttons will
appear in the empty slots of the armed tracks.
Click the Session Record button to record into the selected scene in all armed tracks. A new clip
will appear in each clip slot, with a red Clip Launch button that shows it is currently recording.
To go from recording immediately into loop playback, press the Session Record button again.
Alternatively, you can click on any of the Clip Record buttons to record into that slot. To go from
recording immediately into loop playback, press the clip’s Launch button.
To stop a clip entirely, press its Clip Stop button or the Stop button in the Control Bar.

It is possible to stop playback and prepare for a new “take” with the New button. The New button
stops clips in all armed tracks and selects a scene where new clips can be recorded, creating a new
scene if necessary. Note that the New button is only available in Key Map Mode and MIDI Map
Mode. Detailed steps for creating keyboard assignments are available in the Computer Keyboard
Remote Control section. Please refer to the MIDI and Key Remote Control chapter for more
information about MIDI assignments.

The New Button Appears in the Control Bar When Key Map Mode Is Active.

Note that, by default, launching a Session View scene will not activate recording in empty record-
enabled slots belonging to that scene. However, you can use the Start Recording on Scene Launch

option from the Record, Warp & Launch Settings to tell Live that you do want empty scene slots to
record under these circumstances.

19.3.3 Overdub Recording MIDI Patterns

Live makes pattern-oriented recording of drums and the like quite easy. Using Live’s Impulse instrument
and the following technique, you can successively build up drum patterns while listening to the result.
Or, using an instrument such as Simpler, which allows for chromatic playing, you can build up
melodies or harmonies, note by note.

1.
2.

3.

4.
5.
6.
