---
id: 26.37.4
title: "Global Controls"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.37.4 Global Controls

Spectral Time’s Global Controls.

Input Send adjusts the gain of the input signal.

The two radio buttons Frz > Dly and Dly > Frz reverse the effect order.

The global Dry/Wet control adjusts the balance between the processed and dry signals. Set it to
100% when using Spectral Time in a return track.

26.38 Spectrum

The Spectrum Device.

Spectrum performs real-time frequency analysis of incoming audio signals. The results are represented
in a graph, with dB along the vertical axis and frequency/pitch along the horizontal. The peak levels
are retained on the graph until the song is restarted. Note that Spectrum is not an audio effect, but
rather a measurement tool — it does not alter the incoming signal in any way.

The Block chooser selects the number of samples that will be analyzed in each measurement. Higher
values result in better accuracy, but at the expense of increased CPU load.

Channel determines which channel is analyzed — left, right or both.

The Refresh slider determines how often Spectrum should perform an analysis. As with the Block
parameter, this allows for a tradeoff between accuracy and CPU load. A fast response time is more
accurate, but also more CPU intensive.

The Avg slider allows you to specify how many blocks of samples will be averaged for each update
of the display. With a setting of one, each block is shown. This results in much more activity in the
display, which can be useful for finding the spectrum of short peaks. As you increase the Avg value,
the display updates more smoothly, providing an average of the spectrum over time. This is more
consistent with the way we actually hear.

The Graph button switches between displaying the spectrum as a single interpolated line and discrete
frequency bins.

Max toggles the display of the accumulated maximum amplitude. With Max enabled, you can reset
the maximum amplitude by clicking in the display.

The Scale X buttons allow you to toggle the scaling of the frequency display between linear,
logarithmic, and semitone. Note that logarithmic and semitone are actually the same scaling, but

switch the legending at the top of the display between Hertz and note names. Linear scaling is
particularly useful for detailed analysis of high frequencies.

As you move your mouse over Spectrum’s display, a box appears that shows the amplitude,
frequency and note name at the pointer’s position. The Range/Auto button at the bottom left of
Spectrum’s interface toggles between manually and automatically adjusting the display’s dynamic
range. With Range selected, you can zoom and scroll the amplitude by moving your mouse over the
amplitude legending on the display’s left side. Drag vertically to scroll and horizontally to zoom. You
can also use the Range sliders to set the minimum and maximum amplitude values shown. With Auto
selected, the display automatically scales itself based on the incoming audio level. Note that in Auto
mode, the Range sliders and zooming are disabled.

To get an even better view, you can toggle the location of the display between the device chain and
Live’s main window by clicking the
display.

 button in Spectrum’s title bar or by double-clicking in the
