---
id: 26.37.1
title: "Freezer Section"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.37.1 Freezer Section

Spectral Time’s Freezer Section.

Depending on which of the Manual/Retrigger Mode buttons are activated, the Freezer section
controls how the freeze function is triggered and how certain temporal characteristics of the frozen
audio are affected. Note that for both modes, the Freeze button also has to be toggled in order for the
effect to occur.

In Manual mode, audio can be frozen by clicking on the Freeze button. You can also control the Fade
In and Fade Out time of the frozen signal in milliseconds.

In Retrigger mode, you have more controls to fine-tune the rhythm of the frozen audio, which can be
frozen automatically at every transient (onset), or at regular intervals.

Onsets mode will freeze the audio after a transient is detected in the input. Use the Sensitivity knob to
adjust the sensitivity of onset detection. Sensitivity is highest at 100% and lowest at 0%.

Sync mode will freeze the audio at regular intervals, determined by the Interval control. By toggling
the Freezer Time Unit buttons, the Interval control can be set to either milliseconds or beat-time values.

In both Onsets and Sync modes, the Freezer Fade Shape buttons toggle between two available fade
shapes: Crossfade and Envelope. Both fade shapes have different controls to determine how a new
freeze will fade in and out.

When the Crossfade shape is selected, the new freeze will fade in and the old freeze (or dry signal)
will fade out. The crossfade duration is set by the X-Fade control, which specifically determines the
time in milliseconds over which a new freeze will fade in as a percentage of the sync interval set by
the Interval control.

When the Envelope shape is selected, a new freeze will fade in and out according to the millisecond
time values chosen in the Fade In and Fade Out parameters. In this mode, up to eight simultaneous
freezes can be stacked on top of one another.
