---
id: 26.37.2
title: "Delay Section"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.37.2 Delay Section

Spectral Time’s Delay Section.

The Delay section of Spectral Time can be activated or deactivated with the Delay toggle button and
allows you to create delayed copies of spectral information. If the Freezer section is enabled, the
Delay section will be fed by the Freezer’s output.

The Time parameter controls the delay time for the spectral delay lines. The type of value shown here
is dependent on the unit type chosen in the “Mode” drop-down chooser:

•
•
•

Time mode adjusts the delay time in milliseconds.
Notes adjusts delay time in beat divisions.
16th, 16th Triplet, and 16th Dotted set the delay time to the number of the chosen type of 16th
notes.

Feedback sets the amount of output that is fed back to the delay input. Turning this up increases the
audible echoes of the signal.

Shift shifts the frequency of the delayed signals. Each successive delay will be shifted up or down by
the specified frequency amount.

Stereo adjusts the width of the Tilt and Spray controls.

The Dry/Wet control adjusts the balance between the delayed and dry signals. Note that this only
affects the Delay section of the device.

Tilt skews the delay times for different frequencies. A positive value will delay high frequencies more
than low frequencies, while a negative value delays low frequencies more than high frequencies.

Spray distributes the delay times for different frequencies randomly within the given time range.

Mask limits the effects of the Tilt and Spray controls to either high or low frequencies. Positive values
limit the effects to high frequencies, while negative values limit the effects to low frequencies.

26.37.3 Resolution Section

Spectral Time’s Resolution Control.

In the upper right corner of the spectrogram display, you will find the Resolution control, which sets the
resolution used to process the incoming signal. Lower values reduce the overall latency at the cost of
accuracy and fidelity. Note that since higher values affect overall latency, you may wish to reduce the
Resolution while tracking.
