---
id: 28.11.1.3
title: "Slicing Playback Mode"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.11.1.3 Slicing Playback Mode

The Sample Tab in Slicing Playback Mode.

In Slicing Playback Mode (as in One-Shot Playback Mode), the left and right flags set the available
playback region.

The Slice By chooser determines the specific way in which slices will be created:

•

Transient - Slices are placed on the sample’s transients automatically. The Sensitivity slider
determines how sensitive Simpler is to transient levels within the sample, and thus how many

slices will be automatically created. Higher numbers result in more slices, up to a maximum of
64 slices.
Beat - Slices are placed at musical beat divisions. The Division chooser selects the beat division
at which Simpler will slice the sample region.
Region - Slices are placed at equal time divisions. The Regions chooser selects the number of
evenly-spaced slices that will be created.
Manual - Slices are created manually, by double-clicking within the sample region. When
Manual is selected, no slices are placed automatically.

•

•

•

The Playback chooser determines how many slices can be triggered simultaneously. Mono is
monophonic; only one slice can be played at a time. When set to Poly, multiple slices can be
triggered together. The Voices and Retrig controls are available with Poly enabled, and work as they
do in Classic Playback Mode. When set to Thru, playback is monophonic, but triggering one slice will
continue playback through the rest of the sample region.

The Trigger/Gate switch works the same as it does in One-Shot Playback Mode. The Fade In and Out
controls behave slightly differently, depending on the setting of the Playback chooser. With Mono or
Poly selected, the Fade times are measured from the beginning to the end of each individual slice,
while with Thru selected, they are measured from the triggered slice to the end of the region. This
means that the fade times may sound different depending on where in the region you trigger.

Automatically created slices appear as vertical blue lines on the waveform display. Double-clicking a
slice deletes it. If you’re not satisfied with Simpler’s automatic slice placement, you can click and drag
a slice to move it to a new position. Double-clicking on the waveform between slices will create
manual slices, which appear white. In Transients mode, holding Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) and
clicking on a slice will toggle it between a manual and automatic slice. Manually created slices in
Transients mode are preserved regardless of the Sensitivity amount.
