---
id: 28.11.6
title: "Global Parameters"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.11.6 Global Parameters

Simpler’s Global Parameters.

Panorama is defined by the Pan control, but can be further swayed by randomness (via the Random >
Pan slider) or modulated by the LFO.

Simpler also offers a special Spread parameter that creates a rich stereo chorus by using two voices
per note and panning one to the left and one to the right. The two voices are detuned, and the amount
of detuning can be adjusted with the Spread control.

Whether or not spread is applied to a particular note depends upon the setting of the Spread
parameter during the Note On event. To achieve special effects, you could, for instance, create a
sequence where Spread is zero most of the time and turned on only for some notes. These notes will
then play in stereo, while the others will play mono.

The output volume of Simpler is controlled by the Volume control, which can also be dependent upon
note velocity, as adjusted by the Velocity > Volume control. Tremolo effects can be achieved by
allowing the LFO to modulate the Volume parameter.

Simpler plays back a sample at its original pitch if the incoming MIDI note is C3, however the
Transpose control allows transposing this by +/- 48 semitones. Pitch can also be modulated by the
LFO or pitch envelope. The pitch envelope is especially helpful in creating percussive sounds. Simpler
reacts to MIDI Pitch Bend messages with a sensitivity of +/- 5 semitones. You can also modulate the
Transpose parameter with clip envelopes and external controllers. For fine tuning of the pitch, use the
Detune control, which can be adjusted +/- 50 cents.

Simpler includes a glide function. When this function is activated, new notes will start from the pitch of
the last note played and then slide gradually to their own pitch. Two glide modes are available:
Glide, which works monophonically, and Portamento, which works polyphonically. The speed of the
glide is set with the Time control.

28.11.7 Context Menu Options for Simpler

A number of Simpler’s features are only accessible by opening the context menu via the sample
display or Simpler’s title bar.

By default, Simpler uses constant-power fades. But by turning off “Use Constant Power Fade for
Loops“ in the context menu of Simpler’s title bar, you can enable linear crossfades. Note that the Fade
parameter is not available when warp is enabled.

Presets created in Simpler can be converted for use in Sampler, and vice-versa. To do this, right-click
on Simpler’s title bar and choose the Simpler -> Sampler command. In this way, presets created in
Simpler can be in a multisample context in Sampler. Note, however, that Simpler’s warping and
slicing functionality is not available in Sampler, and presets that use any of these functions will sound
and behave very differently in Sampler.

Manage Sample reveals the loaded sample in Live’s File Manager, while the Show in Browser option
reveals the sample in Live’s browser. Show in Finder/Explorer reveals the sample within its folder in
your computer’s operating system. Note that this command is not available when working with
samples that have been loaded from official Ableton Packs.

Normalize Volumes adjusts the volume of the loaded sample so that its highest peak uses all of the
available headroom.

Crop removes the portions of the sample that are outside of the Start and End points, while Reverse
plays the entire sample backwards. Note that both Crop and Reverse are non-destructive; they create
a copy of the sample and apply the process to the copy, so your original sample is not changed.

When working in Slicing Playback Mode, two additional context menu options are available: Slice to
Drum Rack replaces the Simpler with a Drum Rack in which each of the current slices is split onto its
own pad. Slice to New MIDI Track is similar, but this creates an additional track containing a Drum
Rack rather than replacing the current Simpler. Additionally, when slicing to a new track, a clip is
created that plays back the slices in order. For more about slicing, see the dedicated section for this
topic.
