---
id: 28.11.1
title: "Playback Modes"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.11.1 Playback Modes

The most important parameter that determines how Simpler will treat samples is the mode switch,
which is used to choose one of Simpler’s three playback modes. This switch is found on the left side of
the Sample tab or along the bottom of the expanded sample view.

Mode Switch in the Sample Tab.

Mode Switch in the Expanded View.

•

•

•

Classic Playback Mode is the default mode when using Simpler, and is optimized for creating
“conventional” melodic and harmonic instruments using pitched samples. It features a complete
ADSR envelope and supports looping, allowing for samples to sustain as long as a note is held
down. Classic Mode is polyphonic by default.
One-Shot Playback Mode is exclusively for monophonic playback, and is optimized for use
with one-shot drum hits or short sampled phrases. This mode has simplified envelope controls
and does not support looping. By default, the entire sample will play back when a note is
triggered, regardless of how long the note is held.
Slicing Playback Mode non-destructively slices the sample so that the individual slices can be
played back chromatically. You can create and move slices manually, or choose from a number
of different options for how Simpler will automatically create slices. This mode is ideal for
working with rhythmic drum breaks.

28.11.1.1 Classic Playback Mode

The Sample Tab in Classic Playback Mode.

In Classic Playback Mode, the various sample position controls change which region of the sample
you play back. These controls include the Start and Length parameters as well as the two “flags” that

appear in the waveform display. The left flag sets the absolute position in the sample from which
playback can start, while the End control sets where playback can end. Start and Length are then
represented in percentages of the total sample length enabled by the flags. For example, a Length
value of 50% will play exactly half of the region between the flags. The Loop slider determines how
much of the available sample will loop. This parameter is only active if the Loop switch is enabled.

It’s possible to create sustaining loops that are so short they take on a glitchy or granular character, or
even take on a pitch as a result of looping at audio rates. While this might be exactly the effect you
want, it can cause very high CPU loads, particularly when working with the Complex or Complex Pro
Warp Modes.

Quite often, you’ll start with a longer region of a sample and end up using only a small part of it.
Simpler’s waveform display can be zoomed and panned just as in other parts of Live — drag
vertically or scroll with the mousewheel or trackpad while holding the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac)
modifier to zoom, and drag horizontally to pan different areas of the sample into view. Zooming
works the same in all three playback modes.

Pressing the Loop On/Off button determines whether or not the sample will loop when a note is held
down. It is possible for glitches or pops to occur between a looped sample’s start and end points due
to the discontinuity in waveform amplitude (i.e., the sample’s loudness). The Snap switch will help
mitigate these by forcing Simpler’s loop and region markers to snap to zero-crossing points in the
sample (points where the amplitude is zero). Snapping is based on the left channel of stereo samples.
It is therefore still possible, even with Snap activated, to encounter glitches with stereo samples.

The transition from loop end to loop start can be smoothed with the Fade control, which crossfades the
two points. This method is especially useful when working with long, textural samples.

The Gain slider allows you to boost or cut the level of the sample. Note that this is a separate gain
stage from Simpler’s Volume knob, which determines the final output level of the entire instrument
(after processing through Simpler’s filter). This parameter is available in all three playback modes.

The Voices parameter sets the maximum number of voices that Simpler can play simultaneously. If
more voices are needed than have been allocated by the Voices chooser, “voice stealing“ will take
place, in which the oldest voice(s) will be dropped in favor of those that are new. For example, if your
Voices parameter is set to 8, and ten voices are all vying to be played, the two oldest voices will be
dropped. (Simpler does try to make voice stealing as subtle as possible.)

With Retrig enabled, a note that is already sustaining will be cut off if the same note is played again. If
Retrig is disabled, multiple copies of the same note can overlap. Note that Retrig only has an audible
effect if the sample has a long release time and the number of Voices is set to more than one.

The various warp parameters are the same in all three playback modes and are discussed below.

28.11.1.2 One-Shot Playback Mode

The Sample Tab in One-Shot Playback Mode.

In One-Shot Playback Mode, the left and right flags set the available playback region, as they do in
Classic Mode, but there are no Loop or Length controls. There is also no Voices control; One-Shot
Mode is strictly monophonic.

With Trigger enabled, the sample will continue playing even after the note is released; the amount of
time you hold the pad has no effect when Trigger is on.

You can shape the volume of the sample using the Fade In and Fade Out controls. Fade In determines
how long it takes the sample to reach its maximum volume after a note is played, while Fade Out
begins a fade out the specified amount of time before the end of the sample region.

With Gate enabled, the sample will begin fading out as soon as you release the note. The Fade Out
time determines how long it will take to fade to silence after release.

Snap works similarly to its function in Classic Mode, but only affects the start and end flags (because
there are no loop options.)

28.11.1.3 Slicing Playback Mode

The Sample Tab in Slicing Playback Mode.

In Slicing Playback Mode (as in One-Shot Playback Mode), the left and right flags set the available
playback region.

The Slice By chooser determines the specific way in which slices will be created:

•

Transient - Slices are placed on the sample’s transients automatically. The Sensitivity slider
determines how sensitive Simpler is to transient levels within the sample, and thus how many

slices will be automatically created. Higher numbers result in more slices, up to a maximum of
64 slices.
Beat - Slices are placed at musical beat divisions. The Division chooser selects the beat division
at which Simpler will slice the sample region.
Region - Slices are placed at equal time divisions. The Regions chooser selects the number of
evenly-spaced slices that will be created.
Manual - Slices are created manually, by double-clicking within the sample region. When
Manual is selected, no slices are placed automatically.

•

•

•

The Playback chooser determines how many slices can be triggered simultaneously. Mono is
monophonic; only one slice can be played at a time. When set to Poly, multiple slices can be
triggered together. The Voices and Retrig controls are available with Poly enabled, and work as they
do in Classic Playback Mode. When set to Thru, playback is monophonic, but triggering one slice will
continue playback through the rest of the sample region.

The Trigger/Gate switch works the same as it does in One-Shot Playback Mode. The Fade In and Out
controls behave slightly differently, depending on the setting of the Playback chooser. With Mono or
Poly selected, the Fade times are measured from the beginning to the end of each individual slice,
while with Thru selected, they are measured from the triggered slice to the end of the region. This
means that the fade times may sound different depending on where in the region you trigger.

Automatically created slices appear as vertical blue lines on the waveform display. Double-clicking a
slice deletes it. If you’re not satisfied with Simpler’s automatic slice placement, you can click and drag
a slice to move it to a new position. Double-clicking on the waveform between slices will create
manual slices, which appear white. In Transients mode, holding Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) and
clicking on a slice will toggle it between a manual and automatic slice. Manually created slices in
Transients mode are preserved regardless of the Sensitivity amount.
