---
id: 28.11.4
title: "Envelopes"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.11.4 Envelopes

Simpler’s Filter and Amplitude Envelope Controls.

Simpler contains three classic ADSR envelopes, as seen in most synthesizers, for shaping the dynamic
response of the sample. Amplitude, filter frequency, and pitch modulation are all modifiable by
toggling their respective buttons in the envelope section. Attack controls the time in milliseconds that it
takes for the envelope to reach its peak value after a note is played. Decay controls the amount of
time it takes for the envelope to drop down to the Sustain level, which is held until the note is released.
Release time is the amount of time after the end of the note that it takes for the envelope to drop from
the Sustain level back down to zero. These parameters can be adjusted via their dedicated controls or
graphically, by dragging the handles within the envelope visualizations.

The influence of envelopes on the filter cutoff and pitch can be set using the envelope amount controls
in the top right of each of these sections.

The Filter and Pitch Envelope Amount Controls.

The Amplitude Envelope can be looped via the Loop Mode chooser. For Loop and Trigger modes, if a
note is still held when the Decay stage ends, the envelope will restart from its initial value. The time it
takes to move from the Sustain level to the initial value is defined by the Time parameter. For Beat and
Sync modes, if a note is still held after the amount set in the Rate slider, the envelope will restart from
its initial value.

The Amplitude Envelope Loop Mode Chooser and Time Control.
