---
id: 18.6
title: "Soloing and Cueing"
chapter: 18
---
# 18.6 Soloing and Cueing

By default, soloing a track simply mutes all other tracks (except in some cases where tracks are
feeding other tracks). The signal from the soloed tracks is heard through their respective outputs, with
the pan setting of each track preserved. Soloing a clip track leaves any return tracks audible,
provided that the Solo in Place option is enabled in the Solo button’s context menu. Solo in Place can
also be set as the default behavior by selecting the entry in the Options menu.

Soloing a return track mutes the main output of all other tracks, but still allows you to hear any signals
that arrive at the return via track sends.

Live allows you to replace the standard soloing operation with a cueing operation that lets you
preview tracks as though you were cueing a record on a DJ mixer. This allows choosing clips and
adjusting effects without the audience hearing, before bringing tracks into the mix.

In order to set Live up for cueing, you must be using an audio interface with at least four dedicated
outputs (or two dedicated stereo outputs). The respective settings are accessible in the Main track.
Make sure you have the mixer section and In/Out controls visible.

The Cueing-Related Session Mixer Controls.

1.
2.

3.
4.

5.

The Main Out chooser selects the output on your interface to be used as the main output.
The Cue Out chooser selects the output on your hardware interface to be used for cueing. This
has to be set to an output other than that selected for Main. If the desired outputs don’t show up
in these choosers, please check the Audio Settings.
Activate cueing by setting the Solo/Cue Mode switch to “Cue.“
The tracks’ Solo switches are now replaced by Cue switches with headphone icons. When a
track’s Cue switch is pressed, that track’s output signal will be heard through the output selected
in the Cue Out chooser. Note that the Track Activator switch on the same track still controls
whether or not the track is heard at the Main output.
The Cue Volume control adjusts the volume of the cueing output.

Note that when cueing is set up and activated, the output of audio files that you are previewing in the
browser is also heard through the Cue Out.

18.7 Track Delays

A Track Delay control is available for every track in Live. The control allows delaying or pre-delaying
the output of tracks in milliseconds in order to compensate for human, acoustic, hardware and other
real-world delays.

You can access Track Delays using the Track Options entry in the Mixer Controls submenu within the
View menu, or the menu options in the mixer view control at the bottom right of Live’s window.

The Track Delay Control and Selector.

We do not recommend changing track delays on stage, as it could result in undesirable clicks or pops
in the audio signal. Micro-offsets in Session View clips can be achieved using the Nudge Backward/
Forward buttons in the Clip View, however track delays can be used in the Arrangement View for such
offsets.

Note that delay compensation for plug-ins and Live devices is a separate feature, and is automatic by
default. Unusually high Track Delay settings or reported latencies from plug-ins may cause noticeable
sluggishness in the software. If you are having latency-related difficulties while recording and playing
back instruments, you may want to try turning off device delay compensation, however this is not
normally recommended. You may also find that adjusting the individual track delays is useful in these
cases. Note that the Track Delay controls are unavailable when device delay compensation is
deactivated.
