---
id: 18.2
title: "Audio and MIDI Tracks"
chapter: 18
---
# 18.2 Audio and MIDI Tracks

Audio and MIDI tracks in Live are for hosting and playing clips, as explained in the Live Concepts
chapter.

You can add new audio and MIDI tracks to your Live Set by using the corresponding Create menu
commands, or you can use the shortcuts Ctrl
T (Mac) to create an audio
track and Ctrl

T (Mac) to create a MIDI track.

T (Win) / Cmd

T (Win) / Cmd

Shift

Shift

Tracks can also be created by double-clicking or pressing Enter on files in the browser to load
them, or by dragging contents from the browser into the space to the right of Session View tracks or
below Arrangement View tracks. Devices or files loaded into Live in this manner will create tracks of
the appropriate type (e.g., a MIDI track will be created if a MIDI file or effect is dragged in).

Dragging one or multiple clips from an existing track into the space to the right of Session View tracks
or below Arrangement View tracks creates a new track with those clips and the original track’s
devices.

A track is represented by its track title bar.

Tracks are Represented by Track Title Bars.

You can click on a track title bar to select the track and then execute an Edit menu command on the
track to edit it. One such available command is Rename. One can quickly rename a series of tracks
R (Mac), and then
by executing this command, or the Rename shortcut Ctrl
using the Tab key to move from title bar to title bar.

R (Win) / Cmd

When a # symbol precedes a name, the track will get a number that updates automatically when the
track is moved. Adding additional # symbols will prepend the track number with additional zeros. You
can also enter your own info text for a track via the Edit Info Text command in the Edit menu or in the
track’s context menu.

You can drag tracks by their title bars to rearrange them, or click and drag on their edges to change
their width (in the Session View) or height (in the Arrangement View).

Multiple adjacent or nonadjacent tracks can be selected at once by Shift -clicking or
Ctrl -clicking, respectively. If you drag a selection of nonadjacent tracks, they will be collapsed
together when dropped. To move nonadjacent tracks without collapsing, use Ctrl + arrow keys
instead of the mouse.

When multiple tracks are selected, adjusting one of their mixer controls will adjust the same control for
the other tracks. If the tracks in the multi-selection have differing values for any particular knob or
slider parameter (volume, for example), this difference will be maintained as you adjust the
parameter.

If you drag a track’s title bar to a folder in the Places section of the browser it will be saved as a new
Set. If a track contains audio clips, Live will manage the copying of the referenced samples into this
new location based on the selection in the Collect Files on Export chooser. You can then type in a
name for the newly created Set or confirm the one suggested by Live with Enter .

Tracks are deleted using the Edit menu’s Delete command.
