---
id: 6.1
title: "Layout"
chapter: 6
---
# 6.1 Layout

The Upper Area of the Arrangement View.

1.

The Overview displays the Arrangement’s entire layout of clips from start to end and can be
used for zooming and navigation. The black outline represents the currently displayed part of

the Arrangement. You can click and drag horizontally to scroll left or right, or click and drag
vertically to zoom in or out. To zoom out to the full Arrangement, double-click anywhere within
the black outline.
In the beat-time ruler, time is displayed in bars-beats-sixteenths. Clicking and dragging in this
area works the same way as in the Overview: drag left or right to scroll through the timeline, or
drag vertically to zoom. Double-clicking in the beat-time ruler zooms in to the current selection.
If nothing is selected, double-clicking the beat-time ruler zooms out to show the entire
Arrangement.
Clicking anywhere in the scrub area launches playback from that point. You can also hold the
left mouse button down over a point in the scrub area to loop playback for that area based on
the current global launch quantization value.
Locators can be added to any point in the scrub area to trigger playback for multiple areas of
the Arrangement. This is useful for organizing a piece into launchable sections.
Use the Set Locator button to add locators to the scrub area during playback or while
recording. When a locator is selected, the Set Locator button becomes the Delete Locator
button, which can be used to remove locators.
The Previous and Next Locator buttons launch playback for locators. The jump between
triggered locators is quantized based on the global launch quantization value.
Use the Automation Mode toggle to show or hide automation lanes.
The Lock Envelopes toggle can be used to lock envelopes to the song position rather than to
clips. This lets you move clips without moving automation envelopes.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.
8.

Track, Mixer, and Additional Zoom Controls in the Arrangement View.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

Clips are contained and arranged in a track’s main lane. When using the comping workflow,
you can add clips from various take lanes into the main lane.
Volume, panning, I/O, and additional mixer controls are available via the Arrangement Track
Controls. You can customize which controls are shown using the Arrangement Track Controls
submenu in the View menu.
In the Arrangement View, tracks are stacked vertically. Tracks can be reordered by selecting
and dragging them above or below other tracks.
You can add new tracks to the Arrangement by dragging instruments and devices into the
Mixer Drop Area underneath tracks. Adding instruments or MIDI effects to this area will create
a MIDI track, while adding audio effects will create an audio track.
The Optimize Height and Optimize Width toggles can be used to fit all tracks into the current
height or width of the Arrangement. You can also use the corresponding keyboard shortcuts H
and W .
You can enlarge the waveform display in audio clips using the Waveform Vertical Zoom Level
slider. This is useful for highlighting transients and waveform details without having to adjust the
clip gain. The zoom level is applied to all audio tracks in the Arrangement, as well as new clips
as they are recorded.
In the time ruler, time is displayed in minutes-seconds-milliseconds. You can click and drag in
the time ruler to scroll left or right.
You can open the mixer in Arrangement View via the Mixer option in the View menu or by
using the Mixer View toggle in the bottom right corner of Live’s window.

6.2 Navigation and Zooming

In addition to some of the options described in the Layout section, the following navigation and
zooming methods are also available:

•

•

•

•

•

Alt (Win) / Cmd

To zoom in and out around the current selection progressively, use the + and - keys, or
scroll with the mouse wheel or trackpad while holding Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac). You can
pan the display by clicking and dragging while holding the Ctrl
Option (Mac) modifier.
To zoom in the current selection completely, press Z or use the Zoom to Arrangement Time
Selection command in the View menu. You can revert to the previous zoom state by pressing the
X key. Note that when zooming in multiple times using the Z key, the X key can be
pressed multiple times to go back one step each time the key is pressed.
If you select time on a clip in the Arrangement, the editor in the Clip View will zoom in on that
selected time as well.
To vertically zoom a selected track, scroll inside a track’s main lane with the mouse wheel or
trackpad while holding the Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) modifier. Note that if the
Arrangement contains a time selection, all tracks with selected content will zoom vertically.
To have the Arrangement display follow the song position and scroll automatically, turn on the
Follow switch in the Control Bar, or use the Follow command from the Options menu. Follow will
pause if you make an edit or scroll the view horizontally in the Arrangement, or if you click on
the beat-time ruler. Follow will start again once you stop or restart playback, or click in the
Arrangement or clip scrub area.

The Follow Switch in the Control Bar.
