---
id: 26.23.4
title: "Algorithmic Reverb Engine"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.23.4 Algorithmic Reverb Engine

Hybrid Reverb’s Algorithmic Reverb Section.

In comparison to the convolution engine, the algorithmic engine is based purely on digital delay lines,
and no samples are used.

To the right of the Blend knob you will find the controls for the algorithmic reverb engine. Different
parameters will be displayed depending on what you choose in the Algorithm chooser.

Five different algorithms are available: Dark Hall, Quartz, Shimmer, Tides and Prism. For all
algorithms, the Decay, Size, Delay and Freeze parameters are available.

Decay adjusts the approximate time required for the algorithm’s reverb tail to drop to 1/1000th (-60
dB) of its initial amplitude. Size controls the size of the virtual room. Delay sets an additional predelay
time in milliseconds for the algorithm section.

The Freeze controls consist of two buttons, Freeze and Freeze In. Freeze disables any input to the
reverb engine and sets the algorithm’s decay time to infinite, so that reverb output will sustain
endlessly. When enabled, Freeze In adds the input signal to the frozen reverberation, leading to a
build-up of reverberated sound.

Each algorithm and their unique parameters are described in further detail below.

26.23.4.1 Dark Hall

The Dark Hall algorithm is a smooth and classic sounding algorithm suitable for most medium to long
sounding halls.

In addition to the shared parameters listed above, Dark Hall also provides the following:

•

•

•

•

•

Damping controls the amount of high-frequency filtering within the reverb algorithms. Higher
values result in darker reverberation sounds.
Mod controls the amount of movement within the algorithm’s reverb tail. Less modulation
produces less movement, and more modulation creates more movement with a chorusing effect,
while diminishing the effect of resonances.
Shape transforms the artificial space’s sonic characteristics from small and resonant to large
and diffused.
Bass X controls the crossover frequency of the low-end part of the reverb tail, which is scaled
using the Bass Mult control.
Bass Mult scales the decay time of the low-end of the reverb tail.

In Dark Hall mode, long decay times combined with extremely small Size values create metallic
gong-like resonances.

26.23.4.2 Quartz

The Quartz algorithm is a hall-like reverb with some audible echoes in the reverb’s tail. This reverb has
a very clear replication of the input in the early reflections and is well suited for voices, drums and
signals with clear transients, as well as making echoes.

In addition to the shared parameters listed above, Quartz also provides the following:

•

•

•

Damping controls the amount of high-frequency filtering within the reverb algorithms. Higher
values result in darker reverberation sounds.
Lo Damp controls the amount of low frequency filtering within the reverb algorithms. Higher
values result in brighter reverberation sounds.
Mod controls the amount of movement within the algorithm’s reverb tail. Less modulation
produces less movement, and more modulation creates more movement with a chorusing effect,
while diminishing the effect of resonances.

•

•

Diffusion controls the density of the algorithm’s reverb tail. Low values produce sparser tails,
while higher values produce denser tails.
Distance controls the virtual distance of reflections. Lower values put them closer to the listener
and increase their density while higher values place them farther away and increase the time
between echoes.

26.23.4.3 Shimmer

The Shimmer reverb algorithm is made from densely stacked diffuse delays with a pitch shifter in the
feedback. Low diffusion values result in a pure delay, while high diffusion values result in a dense and
lush artificial reverb. The Shimmer effect crossfades the pitch-shifted signal into the feedback, resulting
in tails that climb or descend in frequency.

In addition to the shared parameters listed above, Shimmer also provides the following:

•

•

•
•

•

Damping controls the amount of high-frequency filtering within the reverb algorithms. Higher
values result in darker reverberation sounds.
Mod controls the amount of movement within the algorithm’s reverb tail. Less modulation
produces less movement, and more modulation creates more movement with a chorusing effect,
while diminishing the effect of resonances.
Pitch adjusts the degree of pitch-shifting applied to the feedback signal in semitones.
Diffusion controls the density of the algorithm’s reverb tail. Low values produce sparser tails,
while higher values produce denser tails. Turn this below 10% for dub-like delay effects. This is
very fun to use on drums!
Shimmer adjusts the intensity of the Shimmer effect. When set to 0%, no pitch shifting is applied;
the level of the pitched signal is progressively more present as the percentage is increased.
When used on melodic material, setting Shimmer to 100% produces interesting pitch
harmonizations.

In Shimmer mode, the Size knob adjusts the distance between individual echoes on percussive
material.

26.23.4.4 Tides

The Tides algorithm uses a smooth reverb while modulating the output’s spectrum with a multiband
filter, creating rippling frequency band effects.

In addition to the shared parameters listed above, Tides also provides the following:

•

•
•
•

•

Damping controls the amount of high-frequency filtering within the reverb algorithms. Higher
values result in darker reverberation sounds.
Wave morphs the filter modulation waveform from noise (0%) to sine (50%) to square (100%).
Tide adjusts the intensity of texture created by the modulation of the reverb tail.
Phase adjusts the amount of offset between the modulation waveforms for the left and right
channel. At 180°, the channels will be perfectly out of phase.
Rate sets the rate of the modulation oscillator in beat divisions with Triplet, 16th, and Dotted
note value variations.

26.23.4.5 Prism

The Prism algorithm is a bright, unique and artificial-sounding diffuse reverb based on velvet
(spectrally flat) noise. This algorithm can easily be used as a “ghost” reverb, adding depth without
interfering with the source material. It is well suited for non-linear short decays on drums and transient
material but can be also used on more sustained sounds with longer decays to achieve a clean yet
digital sound.

In addition to the shared parameters listed above, Prism also provides the following:

•
•
•

Low Mult scales the decay time of the low-end of the reverb tail.
High Mult scales the decay time of the high-end of the reverb tail.
X over controls the crossover frequency between the low-frequency and high-frequency
portions of the reverb tail, which in turn adjusts the frequency content affected by the Low Mult
and High Mult parameters.

Tip: For a classic ’80s-style gated snare reverb, use smaller Decay and Size values.
