---
id: 26.23.3
title: "Convolution Reverb Engine"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.23.3 Convolution Reverb Engine

Hybrid Reverb’s Convolution Reverb Section.

A convolution reverb uses recordings of actual spaces (called impulse responses) to create its effect.
This allows you to place your sounds in practically any space for which you have a recording. For a
more typical reverb sound, this can include some of the most famous halls and studios throughout the

world. With a more creative approach, you can use recordings of anything, from snare drums to
garbage cans, or even instrumental and vocal recordings!

Impulse responses can be chosen in the Convolution IR menu. The upper drop-down menu chooses
the category of impulse response, while the lower drop-down menu chooses a specific impulse
response from within that category. Backward and forward arrow buttons are provided for easy
browsing through impulse responses. These arrow buttons will automatically switch to the next
category when you reach the end of the current one, so you can continuously move through the
impulse responses using the arrows alone. The chosen impulse response’s waveform is then shown in
the main display, which changes based on the Attack, Decay, and Size settings (described below).

The various impulse response categories are: Early Reflections, Real Places, Chambers and Large
Rooms, Made for Drums, Halls, Plates, Springs, Bigger Spaces, Textures, and User.

To add your own impulse responses to the User category, drag and drop the IR audio file into Hybrid
Reverb’s convolution waveform display. If you add a file from a folder that contains other audio files,
all files will be added as impulse responses. Note: if you remove Hybrid Reverb from a track and add
it again, the previously added User samples will no longer be available in the User category.
However, you can drag and drop the samples into the waveform display again to repopulate the list.

The Attack, Decay, and Size parameters control the impulse response’s amplitude envelope. The
Attack parameter controls the attack time of the envelope, while the Decay parameter controls the
decay time of the envelope. The Size parameter adjusts the relative size of the impulse response.
