---
id: 26.23.4.4
title: "Tides"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.23.4.4 Tides

The Tides algorithm uses a smooth reverb while modulating the output’s spectrum with a multiband
filter, creating rippling frequency band effects.

In addition to the shared parameters listed above, Tides also provides the following:

•

•
•
•

•

Damping controls the amount of high-frequency filtering within the reverb algorithms. Higher
values result in darker reverberation sounds.
Wave morphs the filter modulation waveform from noise (0%) to sine (50%) to square (100%).
Tide adjusts the intensity of texture created by the modulation of the reverb tail.
Phase adjusts the amount of offset between the modulation waveforms for the left and right
channel. At 180°, the channels will be perfectly out of phase.
Rate sets the rate of the modulation oscillator in beat divisions with Triplet, 16th, and Dotted
note value variations.

26.23.4.5 Prism

The Prism algorithm is a bright, unique and artificial-sounding diffuse reverb based on velvet
(spectrally flat) noise. This algorithm can easily be used as a “ghost” reverb, adding depth without
interfering with the source material. It is well suited for non-linear short decays on drums and transient
material but can be also used on more sustained sounds with longer decays to achieve a clean yet
digital sound.

In addition to the shared parameters listed above, Prism also provides the following:

•
•
•

Low Mult scales the decay time of the low-end of the reverb tail.
High Mult scales the decay time of the high-end of the reverb tail.
X over controls the crossover frequency between the low-frequency and high-frequency
portions of the reverb tail, which in turn adjusts the frequency content affected by the Low Mult
and High Mult parameters.

Tip: For a classic ’80s-style gated snare reverb, use smaller Decay and Size values.
