---
id: 26.23.5
title: "EQ Section"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.23.5 EQ Section

Hybrid Reverb’s EQ Section.

The EQ section of Hybrid Reverb is found in the second tab of the device’s display. You can quickly
activate or deactivate it by clicking on its toggle button in the tab.

By default, the EQ is placed after both reverb engines in the signal chain; however, by toggling the
Pre Algo button, you can place the EQ before the algorithmic reverb, regardless of which reverb
routing you have chosen.

Four bands of control are provided to further shape the reverb signal. The low and high bands can be
toggled between pass filters and shelving EQs. While in low-pass or high-pass mode, the filters
provide a range of slopes, from a gentle 6 dB/octave to a steep 96 dB/octave. The two middle peak
EQs can cover the entire frequency range and can be used for anything from wide-band boosting to
semi-narrow cuts.

26.23.6 Output Section

Hybrid Reverb’s output section contains a final set of parameters to shape the device’s overall sound.

Stereo sets the stereo width of the wet signal. 0% yields a mono signal whereas values above 100%
create a widened stereo panorama.

The Vintage slider increasingly degrades Hybrid Reverb’s sounds by emulating lower sample rates
and bit-depths, as is common in vintage digital reverberation devices. Four presets can be used to
radically alter the overall sound: Subtle, Old, Older, and Extreme.

Bass Mono converts frequencies lower than 180 Hz of Hybrid Reverb’s output signal to mono, which
helps to make bass frequencies sound tighter.

The Dry/Wet control adjusts the balance between the processed and dry signals. Set it to 100%
when using Hybrid Reverb in a return track.
