---
id: 26.23.2
title: "Input Section"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.23.2 Input Section

Using the Send knob, you can choose the amount of gain applied to the signal that feeds the reverb.
Note that the dry signal is not affected and will still pass through the device.

Predelay controls the delay time before the onset of the first early reflection. This delays the
reverberation relative to the input signal. One’s impression of the size of a real room depends partly
on this delay; typical values for “natural” sounds range from 1ms to 25ms. You can choose either a
time-based or beat-synced predelay time using the Predelay Sync buttons.

Feedback sets the amount of the predelay’s output that is fed back to its input. Note that both time-
based and beat-based predelay times have independent feedback settings.

The main window of Hybrid Reverb has two tabs: Reverb and EQ. The Reverb tab contains all controls
related to both the convolution and algorithmic reverb engines. Starting with the Routing chooser in
the center, you’ll find four options:

•

•

•
•

Serial routes the output of the convolution engine into the algorithmic engine. While the
convolution reverb is always active in this mode, Blend controls the amount of convolution
reverb fed into the algorithmic reverb. A setting of 100/0 produces pure convolution reverb,
while 0/100 generates pure algorithmic reverb which has been fed by the convolution reverb’s
output.
Parallel uses both convolution and algorithmic reverb engines, but separates them from each
other. The Blend knob adjusts the level balance between the two different reverb engines, with
a setting of 100/0 generating pure convolution reverb and 0/100 producing pure algorithmic
reverb.
Algorithm uses only the algorithmic reverb engine.
Convolution uses only the convolution reverb engine.

Hybrid Reverb’s user interface changes dynamically, so that when a reverb engine is not in use, its
controls will appear grayed out.

The Blend knob blends between the output of the convolution and algorithm sections when Routing is
set to Serial or Parallel. Note that when either Algorithm or Convolution is selected in the Routing
chooser, the Blend knob will not have an effect.
