---
id: 26.23.4.3
title: "Shimmer"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.23.4.3 Shimmer

The Shimmer reverb algorithm is made from densely stacked diffuse delays with a pitch shifter in the
feedback. Low diffusion values result in a pure delay, while high diffusion values result in a dense and
lush artificial reverb. The Shimmer effect crossfades the pitch-shifted signal into the feedback, resulting
in tails that climb or descend in frequency.

In addition to the shared parameters listed above, Shimmer also provides the following:

•

•

•
•

•

Damping controls the amount of high-frequency filtering within the reverb algorithms. Higher
values result in darker reverberation sounds.
Mod controls the amount of movement within the algorithm’s reverb tail. Less modulation
produces less movement, and more modulation creates more movement with a chorusing effect,
while diminishing the effect of resonances.
Pitch adjusts the degree of pitch-shifting applied to the feedback signal in semitones.
Diffusion controls the density of the algorithm’s reverb tail. Low values produce sparser tails,
while higher values produce denser tails. Turn this below 10% for dub-like delay effects. This is
very fun to use on drums!
Shimmer adjusts the intensity of the Shimmer effect. When set to 0%, no pitch shifting is applied;
the level of the pitched signal is progressively more present as the percentage is increased.
When used on melodic material, setting Shimmer to 100% produces interesting pitch
harmonizations.

In Shimmer mode, the Size knob adjusts the distance between individual echoes on percussive
material.
