---
id: 11.3.5
title: "Euclidean"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.3.5 Euclidean

Euclidean is a Max for Live Generator.

The Euclidean MIDI Tool.

Euclidean generates notes based on Euclidean rhythms for up to four voices at a time. New notes will
be generated within the time selection or, if there is no time selection, within the loop.

The Pattern tab contains a visual representation of how generated notes will be added to the clip. To
the right of the visualization, there are individual toggles that can be used for activating and
deactivating voices, as well as individual Rotation sliders for setting the offset of generated notes for
each voice, relative to the beginning of the time selection. In the middle of the pattern visualization,
there is a randomization button, which sets the Rotation sliders’ value for each voice at random.

You can click on Voices to select the Voices tab. Like in the Pattern tab, there are toggles to activate or
deactivate individual voices, as well as the option to set each voice to a specific pitch (when using
instrument devices) or drum pad (when using Drum Racks). Use the up and down arrows to the left of
the voice activation toggles to simultaneously change all the pitches or drum pads used to generate
notes. You can also set individual velocity values for the notes generated for each voice using the
Velocity sliders on the right.

Below the Pattern and Voices tabs, there are additional parameters that can be used to further define
the shape of the generated rhythmic pattern:

Steps — Determines the length of the generated pattern. If the pattern length is shorter than the length
of the time selection, the pattern will be repeated and potentially wrapped around the time selection.
Density — Determines the number of times the pattern is repeated within a time selection. If the pattern
doesn’t fit within the time selection, notes will be wrapped around the time selection. Division — Sets
the length of a step in the pattern.

Notes Generated with the Euclidean MIDI Tool.

12. Editing MPE

MIDI Polyphonic Expression (MPE) is an extension to the MIDI specification that enables attaching
parameter control information to individual notes, instead of globally per MIDI channel. This way of
using MIDI allows MPE-capable devices to control multiple parameters of every note in real time for
more expressive instrumental performances.

To enable Live to receive per-note expression from an MPE-capable MIDI controller, first enable MPE
Mode in the Link, Tempo & MIDI Settings for that controller.

Enabling MPE Mode for a MIDI Controller.

Note that when selecting a MIDI controller that has MPE enabled as an input device on a track, the
channel input routing is fixed to “All Channels’’ and no individual channels can be selected.

For more information about working with MIDI controllers, please refer to the MIDI and Key Remote
Control chapter. Once your controller is set up, you can use it to record new MIDI clips containing
MPE data.

The Clip View’s Note Expression tab allows viewing and editing five dimensions of MPE for each note
in a clip: Pitch (per-note pitch bend), Slide (per-note Y-Axis), Pressure (Poly Aftertouch/MPE

Pressure), Velocity and Release Velocity (Note Off Velocity). This makes it possible to refine the
expression of recorded material, or to automate polyphonic sound variations for MPE-capable
instruments.

Note that you can view and edit MPE data for notes in all MIDI clips, regardless of whether those
clips were created using an MPE-capable device or using other methods. We will look at viewing and
editing MPE data in the following sections.

12.1 Viewing MPE Data

A MIDI Clip with MPE Data in the Clip View.

To view MPE data in a MIDI clip, first enter Clip View by double-clicking on a clip, then click on the
3 (Mac) to open the
Note Expression Tab or use the key command Alt
Expression Editors at the bottom of Clip View. Four of the five MPE parameters are contained in their
own expression lane: Slide, Pressure, Velocity, and Release Velocity. By default, only Slide and
Pressure are shown. Envelopes for the fifth parameter, Pitch, are displayed on top of their
corresponding notes in the MIDI Note Editor.

3 (Win) / Option

Each expression lane can be shown or hidden via the lane selector toggle buttons at the left.
Underneath the lane selector toggle buttons, a triangular toggle button allows showing/hiding all
enabled lanes at once.

These Buttons Toggle Visibility of Expression Lanes.

When all expression lane selectors are hidden/disabled, pressing the triangular toggle button will
show all expression lanes at once. Each expression lane can be resized individually via their split
lines. All expression lanes can be resized simultaneously by dragging the split line between the lanes
and the MIDI Note Editor.

Pressing Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) and clicking the triangular toggle button displays all
expression lanes. When hiding the expression lanes using the triangular toggle button, or by dragging
the Expression Editor View split line, the lane visibility toggles are hidden as well.

MIDI track meters will display MPE per-note controller changes. The lowest dot in a meter lights up in
a blue color if per-note controller changes pass that meter.

12.2 Editing MPE Data

When clicking a note (or any of its expression dimensions) in the MIDI Note Editor while the Note
Expression tab is open, the note will appear in a transparent overlay. Envelopes appear, along with
any existing breakpoints, to allow editing the note’s Pitch, Slide, and Pressure envelopes, while
markers can be used to edit the note’s Velocity and Release Velocity values. Unselected notes will
appear grayed out, and their expression envelopes will be dimmed.

Select a Note to View Its Expression Envelopes.

After clicking on the note or envelope you wish to edit, all expression breakpoints for the chosen
envelope and the line segments connecting them become draggable objects. Clicking and dragging
in the envelope’s background defines a selection. Here’s how editing MPE data works:

•
•
•

Click at a position on a line segment to create a new breakpoint there.
Click on a breakpoint to delete it.
To help you edit breakpoints more quickly, expression values are shown when you create,
hover over, or drag a breakpoint. Note that when hovering over or dragging a selected line
segment, the expression value shown will correspond to the breakpoint value at the cursor’s
current position.

A Breakpoint’s Expression Value.

•

•

•

Click and drag a breakpoint to move it to the desired location. If the breakpoint you are
dragging is in the current selection, all other breakpoints in the selection will follow the
movement.
Right-click on a breakpoint and choose Edit Value from the context menu. This allows you to set
an exact value in the editable field using your computer keyboard. If multiple breakpoints are
selected, they will all be moved relatively. Similarly, you can also create new breakpoints at an
exact value by right-clicking on a preview breakpoint and choosing the Add Value command.
Click near (but not on) a line segment or hold Shift and click directly on a line segment to
select it. With the left mouse button held down, drag to move the line segment to the desired

location. If the line segment you are dragging is in the current time selection, Live will insert
breakpoints at the selection’s edges and the entire segment will move together.

To Move all Breakpoints Within the Selection, Drag Any One of Them.

•

•

•

•

•

•

4 (Mac) shortcut. When the grid is enabled, breakpoints and line

In the Note Expression tab, the grid is disabled by default for easier editing at a finer resolution.
Note that the grid’s settings are separate from the grid in the other tabs, and they are saved
with the clip.
If needed, you can enable the grid using the Snap to Grid options menu entry or the Ctrl
4 (Win) / Cmd
segments will snap to time positions where neighboring breakpoints exist. Breakpoints created
close to a grid line will automatically snap to that line.
When moving a line segment or breakpoint, hold Shift while dragging to restrict movement
to either the horizontal or vertical axis.
Holding down the Shift modifier while dragging vertically allows you to adjust the
breakpoint or line segment value at a finer resolution.
You can remove a neighboring breakpoint by continuing to drag a breakpoint or line segment
“over” it horizontally.
Hold Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) and drag a line segment to curve the segment. Double-
click while holding Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) to return the segment to a straight line.

A Curved Envelope Segment.

•

Except for the Pitch expression envelope, you can scale Slide, Pressure, Velocity and Release
Velocity envelopes proportionally across a note’s entire duration, similar to that of velocities for

A (Win) / Cmd

multiple selected notes. To so do, first click outside of the note’s area, then hover the mouse
above the desired envelope. When the envelope turns blue, click and drag up or down, and
the envelope will be scaled accordingly. This is also the behavior when editing expression
envelopes for multiple selected notes at once.
You can also adjust all selected breakpoints equally, rather than scaling them. To do so, first
click on the envelope you wish to edit, then use Ctrl
A (Mac) to select
all of the breakpoints, then drag up or down with the mouse as desired to increase or decrease
their value; dragging left or right will move all breakpoints horizontally as a group.
When a note is moved, its expression envelopes will move along with it.
Stretching a MIDI note using the MIDI stretch markers in the MIDI Editor or the ÷2 and x2
buttons in the Notes tab will cause any per-note expression belonging to that note to be
stretched as well.
Pitch breakpoints snap to the nearest semitone when pressing Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) while
the grid is off. This also works for Pitch values in Draw Mode. This behavior can be bypassed
using the same shortcuts when the grid is on.
Pitch envelopes are hidden when Fold Mode is enabled in the Note Expression tab.
When the Note Expression tab is open, using the Zoom to Clip Selection command or Z key
shortcut adjusts the zoom level according to pitch bend values contained in the time selection.
When the Note Expression tab is open, the Clear All Envelopes entry in the context menu of the
MIDI Note Editor and per-note expression lanes clears all expression envelopes of one or
multiple selected notes.

•

•
•

•

•
•

•

12.3 Drawing Envelopes

With Draw Mode enabled, you can click and drag to free-handedly “draw“ an envelope in the Pitch,
Slide and Pressure expression lanes.

To toggle Draw Mode for MPE data, select the Draw Mode Option from the Option menu, click on
the Control Bar’s Draw Mode switch, or press B , then click on the envelope you wish to edit.
Holding B while editing with the mouse temporarily toggles Draw Mode.

Drawing an Envelope.

Holding down the Shift modifier while dragging vertically allows you to adjust the expression
value of a step at a finer resolution.

When the grid is enabled using the Snap to Grid options menu entry or the Ctrl
4 (Win) / Cmd
4 (Mac) shortcut, drawing creates steps as wide as the visible grid, which you can modify using a
number of handy shortcuts. To temporarily enable drawing in the grid while it is disabled, hold down
Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) while drawing.

12.4 MPE in Live’s Devices and on Push 2

Many Live devices support MPE and include MPE presets that bring new dimensions of interaction
and playability to your sound. The expressive possibilities within these devices also enable you to take
advantage of polyphonic aftertouch on Push 2.

12.5 MPE in External Plug-ins

MPE data for MPE-enabled plug-ins can also be accessed and modulated in Live.

The enabled/disabled state of a plug-in device’s MPE Mode will be saved with that device’s default
configuration.

Plug-ins that have MIDI outs and that have MPE enabled can also output MPE.

12.6 MPE/Multi-channel Settings

To set up a specific MPE configuration, you can access a MPE/Multi-channel Settings dialog box
from:

•
•
•

The Ext. Instrument device.
The I/O section of Live’s mixer.
The context menu of an MPE-enabled plug-in.

These settings can be used for hardware synths that require a specific MPE configuration, or plug-ins
that do not officially support MPE but can be used with MPE controllers due to their multi-timbral
support.

12.6.1 Accessing the MPE/Multi-channel Settings Dialog

In the Ext. Instrument device, you can choose your Routing Target in the MIDI To drop-down menu.
Then select MPE from the second drop-down, open the menu again, and select MPE Settings…

The MPE Settings in Ext. Instrument.

To access these settings in the I/O section of the mixer, make sure you have the device you want to
control selected in the MIDI To section of the MIDI track’s output and choose MPE from the MIDI To
drop-down menu in the Session or Arrangement Mixer, then open the drop-down menu again and
choose MPE Settings…

The MPE Settings in the I/O Section.

For MPE-enabled plug-ins, you can find these settings in the context menu of the respective device’s
title bar.

The MPE Settings in a Plug-in Context Menu.

12.6.2 The MPE/Multi-Channel Settings Dialog

The MPE/Multi-channel Settings.

You can use the settings to:

•

•
•

Configure the MPE zone and range of note channels used by Live when sending MPE to an
external MIDI device or plug-in.
Select the upper or lower zone and number of note channels.
Select multi-channel mode, which sets an arbitrary range of note channels.

There are settings available for the lower zone and upper zone. A track can only output to a single
zone, so to use both zones, set up two tracks.

Each zone needs a global channel (for non-polyphonic controls). The global channel for the lower
zone is Channel 1, and Channel 16 is for the upper zone. You can also assign a range of the other
MIDI channels to each zone (in general the number of channels you assign to a zone is linked to the
amount of polyphony you want in that zone). An example zone configuration might be to use
channels 1-11 for the lower zone and channels 12-16 for the upper zone.

Note: Live only supports zones for MPE output, which is particularly useful for hardware synths that
require a particular zone configuration.

These settings can also be used, for example, to connect two MPE synths to the same MIDI interface
(again, one connected through the MIDI thru of the other), or setting up a synth that knows how to
control two different sounds by assigning them to different zones. You can set up two MIDI tracks in
Live, routed to the same MIDI output device, but configuring one track for the lower zone and the
other for the upper zone.

13. Converting Audio to MIDI

Although Live’s warping allows for audio files to be used much more flexibly than in traditional audio
software, there are also a number of ways to extract musical information from audio clips and place it
into MIDI clips, for additional creative possibilities.

When an audio clip is selected, four conversion commands are available in the Create Menu or the
context menu for the clip.

Context Menu Commands For Converting Audio To MIDI.

13.1 Slice to New MIDI Track

This command divides the audio into chunks which are assigned to single MIDI notes. Slicing differs
from the Convert commands below, in that it doesn’t analyze the musical context of your original
audio. Instead, it simply splits the original audio into portions of time, regardless of the content. The
Drum Rack provides an ideal environment for working with sliced files, and most of the setup happens
automatically after you make a few choices:

The Slicing Dialog.

When you select Slice to New MIDI track, you’ll be presented with a dialog box. This offers a list of
slicing divisions, as well as a chooser to select the Slicing Preset. The top chooser allows you to slice at
a variety of beat resolutions or according to the clip’s transients or Warp Markers. Since a Rack can
contain a maximum of 128 chains, Live won’t let you proceed if your choice would result in more than
128 slices. You can fix this by either setting a lower slice resolution or by selecting a smaller region of
the clip to slice.

The Slicing Preset chooser contains a few Ableton-supplied slicing templates, as well as any of your
own that you may have placed in your User Library’s default presets folder.

With “Preserve warped timing” enabled, the clip will be sliced in such a way that timing alterations as
a result of warping are preserved. With this option disabled, any changes that result from warping will
not be reflected in the sliced clip; the sliced version will instead sound like the original, “raw” audio.

Once you’ve made your slicing choices and clicked OK, a number of things will happen:

1.

2.

3.

A new MIDI track will be created, containing a MIDI clip. The clip will contain one note for
each slice, arranged in a chromatic sequence.
A Drum Rack will be added to the newly created track, containing one chain per slice. Each
chain will be triggered by one of the notes from the clip, and will contain a Simpler with the
corresponding audio slice loaded.
The Drum Rack’s Macro Controls will be pre-assigned to useful parameters for the Simplers, as
determined by the settings in the selected slicing preset. In the factory Slicing presets, these
include basic envelope controls and parameters to adjust the loop and crossfade properties of
each slice. Adjusting one of the Macro Controls will adjust the mapped parameter in each
Simpler simultaneously.

Note: Live will take a few moments to process all of this information.

Playing the MIDI clip will trigger each chain in the Drum Rack in order, according to the timing
information that you specified or that was embedded in the audio. This opens up many new editing
possibilities, including:

13.1.1 Resequencing Slices

Rearranging the Sliced MIDI Data.

By default, your sliced MIDI data will form a chromatically-ascending “staircase“ pattern in order to
trigger the correct chains in their original order. But you can create new patterns by simply editing the
MIDI notes. You can achieve a similar effect by dragging the Drum Rack’s pads onto each other to
swap their note mappings.

13.1.2 Using Effects on Slices

Because each slice lives in its own chain in the Drum Rack, you can easily process individual slices
with their own audio effects. To process several slices with the same set of effects, multi-select their
chains in the Drum Rack’s chain list and press Ctrl
their own nested Rack. Then insert the effects after this new sub-Rack.

G (Mac) to group them to

G (Win) / Cmd

For even more creative possibilities, try inserting MIDI effects before the Drum Rack. The Arpeggiator
and Random devices can yield particularly interesting results.

Slicing is most commonly applied to drum loops, but there’s no reason to stop there. Experiment with
slicing audio from different sources, such as voices and ambient textures. The same sorts of
resequencing and reprocessing operations can be applied to anything you slice — sometimes with
unexpected results.

13.2 Convert Harmony to New MIDI Track

This command identifies the pitches in a polyphonic audio recording and places them into a clip on a
new MIDI track. The track comes preloaded with an Instrument Rack that plays a piano sound (which
can, of course, be replaced by another instrument if you choose).

Note that this command, as with the other Convert commands, differs from slicing in that the
generated MIDI clip does not play the original sound, but instead extracts the notes and uses them to
play an entirely different sound.

The Convert Harmony command can work with music from your collection, but you can also get great
results by generating MIDI from audio recordings of yourself playing harmonic instruments such as
guitar or piano.

13.3 Convert Melody to New MIDI Track

This command identifies the pitches in monophonic audio and places them into a clip on a new MIDI
track.

The track comes preloaded with an Instrument Rack that plays a synthesizer sound. Using the Rack’s
“Synth to Piano” Macro Control, you can adjust the timbre of this sound between an analog-style
synth and an electric piano. The instrument was designed to be versatile enough to provide a good
preview, but can of course be replaced with another instrument if you choose.

The Melody to MIDI Instrument Rack.

The Convert Melody command can work with music from your collection, but also allows you to
record yourself singing, whistling, or playing a solo instrument such as a guitar and use the recording
to generate MIDI notes.

13.4 Convert Drums to New MIDI Track

This command extracts the rhythms from unpitched, percussive audio and places them into a clip on a
new MIDI track. The command also attempts to identify kick, snare and hihat sounds and places them
into the new clip so that they play the appropriate sounds in the preloaded Drum Rack.

As with the Convert Melody command, you can adjust the transient markers in the audio clip prior to
conversion to determined where notes will be placed in the converted MIDI clip.

Convert Drums works well with recorded breakbeats, but also with your own recordings such as
beatboxing or tapping on a surface.

13.5 Optimizing for Better Conversion Quality

The Convert commands can generate interesting results when used on pre-existing recordings from
your collection, but also when used on your own recorded material. For example, you can record
yourself singing, playing guitar, or even beatboxing and use the Convert commands to generate MIDI
that you can use as a starting point for new music.

For the most accurate results, we recommend the following:

•

•

•

Use music that has clear attacks. Notes that fade in or “swell” may not be detected by the
conversion process.
Work with recordings of isolated instruments. The Convert Drums command, for example, works
best with unaccompanied drum breaks; if other instruments are present, their notes will be
detected as well.
Use uncompressed, high-quality audio files such as .wav or .aiff. Lossy data formats such as
mp3 may result in unpredictable conversions, unless the recordings are at high bitrates.

Live uses the transient markers in the original audio clip to determine the divisions between notes in the
converted MIDI clip. This means that you can “tune” the results of the conversion by adding, moving,
or deleting transient markers in the audio clip before running any of the Convert commands.

Although each of the commands has been designed for a particular type of musical material, you can
sometimes get very interesting results by applying the “wrong” command. For example, Convert
Harmony will usually create chords. So running it on a monophonic clip (like a vocal recording) will
often generate notes that weren’t present in the original audio. This can be a great way to spark your
creativity.

14. Using Grooves

The timing and “feel“ of each clip in your Set can be modified through the use of grooves. Live comes
with a large selection of grooves, which appear as .agr files in the browser.

Groove Files in the Browser.

The easiest way to work with library grooves is to drag and drop them from the browser directly onto
clips in your Set. This immediately applies the timing characteristics of the groove file to the clip. If you
want to quickly try out a variety of grooves, you can enable the Hot-Swap button above a clip’s Clip
Groove chooser and then step through the grooves in the browser while the clip plays.

The Hot-Swap Groove Button.

Grooves can be applied to both audio and MIDI clips. In audio clips, grooves work by adjusting the
clip’s warping behavior, and thus only work on clips with Warp enabled.

14.1 Groove Pool

Once you’ve applied a groove file, you can modify its behavior by adjusting its parameters in the
Groove Pool, which can be opened or closed via drop-down menu entry in the browser view control
or by using the shortcut Ctrl
