---
id: 11.3.2
title: "Seed"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.3.2 Seed

The Seed MIDI Tool randomly generates notes within specified pitch, length and velocity ranges.
Additional parameters allow specifying the number of simultaneously occurring notes, as well as the
overall number of generated notes.

The Seed Generator.

To select the range of pitches within which new notes will be generated, drag the Minimum and
Maximum Pitch or Key Track sliders or the triangular handles in the Pitch Range slider. If one of the
handles is dragged to overlap the other, the handles get merged; in this case, notes will be generated
in one pitch only. To revert to two handles, click anywhere in the Pitch Range slider or set different
values in the Minimum and Maximum Pitch or Key Track sliders. You can also hold the Alt (Win) /
Option (Mac) key and click in the piano ruler to select a single pitch for notes to be generated in or
click and drag to select a range of pitches. Note that if the clip has an active scale, the slider will be
displayed in purple; otherwise, it will be displayed in the same color as the other two sliders.

The Duration and Velocity Range sliders work in the same way as the Pitch Range slider to set note
length and velocity ranges for generated notes. The minimum note length you can set for the duration
range is 1/128 note and the maximum is one note. Velocity can range from 1 to 127.

You can also control the number of notes added using the Voices and Density controls, which allow
setting the maximum number of simultaneous notes to be generated, as well as the number of all
generated notes, represented as a percentage of the pitch range to be populated.

Notes Added Using Seed.
