---
id: 11.3.3
title: "Shape"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.3.3 Shape

Shape is a MIDI Tool that generates a sequence of notes within a range of pitches. The notes are
distributed following a shape defined in the MIDI Tool’s display.

The Shape Generator.

In order to determine the shape that will be used for note generation you can use the Shape Presets
drop-down menu or draw your own shape in the display. Use the Minimum and Maximum Pitch
sliders to set a range in which the notes will be added. You can also hold the Alt (Win) / Option
(Mac) key and click and drag to select a range. Note that when a clip scale is active, the shape is
displayed in purple.

Use the Rate control to set the minimum length of the generated notes. Note duration can also be
affected by the Tie parameter, which sets the probability that a generated note will be extended to the
next note.

The Density knob allows you to set the number of notes to be added, represented as a percentage of
the shape to be populated.

If you want to randomize the pitches of the generated notes, use the Jitter parameter. At 0%, the notes
will follow the shape set out in the Shape Levels display exactly and will move progressively further
away from the shape as you increase the Jitter value. Note that the randomized pitches will always
stay within the range specified by the Minimum and Maximum Pitch sliders.

Notes Generated with Shape.

11.3.4 Stacks

Stacks is a MIDI Tool you can use to add individual chords or create chord progressions within a
selected scale. The generated chords fill time selection or the length of the loop if there is no time
selection.

The Stacks Generator.

You can select a chord pattern by clicking and dragging the Chord Selector Pad or using Ctrl
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) and the up and down arrow keys. The chord pattern diagrams are simple
illustrations of the relationship between the intervals in a chord; they are based on the Tonnetz system.
When hovering over a Chord Selector Pad, additional information about the chord is displayed in the
Status Bar.

You can also load custom chord banks into Stacks. Chord banks are text files in the JSON format. To
load a chord file into the Stacks Generator, place a .stacks file in a folder that’s added to the
browser’s Places section, then double-click the file name to load it as a replacement for Stacks’s
default chord bank. You can quickly locate the chord files later by using the browser’s dedicated
Stacks tag in the MIDI Tool filter group, or the MIDI Tool tag in the Content filter group. Find out more
about creating custom chord banks in this Knowledge Base article.

To create a chord progression, use the Add Chord plus button to the right of the Chord Selector Pad/s
and select a pattern for the additional chords. You can reduce the number of chords using the Delete
Chord minus button.

Use the Chord Root knob to set the root note for the chord. You can also hold the Alt (Win) /
Option (Mac) key and click in the piano ruler to make the selection, or use up and down arrow keys

to cycle through root notes. If there is a scale set for the clip, the Chord Root will be automatically
adjusted to the root note of that scale. You can still choose a different root note for the chord, but
whenever a clip scale is active, the root note options for the chord will be limited to the notes within
the clip scale.

The Chord Inversion knob allows you to rearrange a chord using one of the available inversions.
Positive values cycle through the possible inversions for a selected chord and negative values cycle
through the same inversions an octave lower. Chord Duration and Offset can be used to set the length
and position of a chord. Both can be adjusted in eighths of the original chord length.

Note that all of the parameters visible in the Stacks Generator’s display at a given moment are
specific for the currently selected chord. This means that whenever another chord is selected, the
display will be updated to show that chord’s parameters.

Chord Progression Generated with Stacks.
