---
id: 11.3.1
title: "Rhythm"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.3.1 Rhythm

The Rhythm MIDI Tool generates a note pattern according to the set parameters, repeated to fill a
given time selection.

The Rhythm Generator.

The notes can be generated for a particular pitch or for an individual drum pad when working with
Drum Racks. You can choose a pitch or a drum pad using the Pitch control, or by holding the Alt
(Win) / Option (Mac) key and clicking on the piano ruler.

Use the Steps control to set the number of steps in the pattern, up to 16 steps.

The Pattern knob is used to determine the placement of the generated notes (the shape of the pattern).
The number of available patterns depends on the values set for the Steps and Density parameters.

The Density knob controls the number of notes in a pattern. Note that the maximum value is
determined by the number set with the Steps control.

The Step Duration slider can be used to adjust the number of times a pattern is repeated in the time
selection. For example, for a time selection of one bar, if Step Duration is set to 1/8 and Steps is set to
8, the pattern will be repeated only once. When Step Duration is changed to 1/16 in the same
scenario, the pattern is repeated twice. Note that Step Duration will affect the maximum number of
steps to be set using the Steps control.

The Split control allows you to set a probability for a step in a pattern to be divided in half.

Shift moves the generated notes by a specified number of steps to the right when set to positive values
and to the left when set to negative values.

You can set the note velocity for the generated notes and specify a different velocity for accented
notes using the Velocity and Accent sliders. The number of accented notes that occur in the pattern is
determined by the Accent Frequency parameter, which sets the number of notes between accented

notes. This value ranges from 0 to the number of notes specified by the Density parameter. Note that
an accented note is counted as a note occurrence — if the Accent Frequency is set to 1, every note
will be accented. You can use the Accent Offset arrows to shift the placement of accented notes in the
pattern.

To add to your rhythmic pattern, deselect the previously generated notes and adjust Rhythm’s
parameters again for a different pitch or drum pad.

A Rhythmic Pattern Generated in a Drum Track.
