---
id: 6.15
title: "The Mixer in Arrangement View"
chapter: 6
---
# 6.15 The Mixer in Arrangement View

There are two sets of mixer controls available in the Arrangement View: the mixer and the
Arrangement track controls.

The Mixer (Bottom) and Arrangement Track Controls (Right).

The mixer can be opened using the Mixer command in the View menu or the shortcut Ctrl
M (Win) / Cmd
control in the bottom right corner of Live’s window.

M (Mac). You can also show/hide the mixer using the mixer view

Option

Alt

You can customize which controls are available in the mixer via the Mixer Controls submenu in the
View menu.

The Mixer Controls Submenu.

The View menu also contains a submenu for showing/hiding the various Arrangement track controls.

Values and settings are shared between the mixer and Arrangement track controls, so you can use
either to adjust tracks. Note that some controls are only available in the mixer, such as the
Performance Impact indicators, track delays and crossfader.

7. Session View

In Live’s Arrangement View, as in all traditional sequencing programs, everything happens along a
fixed song timeline. For a number of applications, this is a limiting paradigm:

•

•
•

When playing live, or when DJing, the order of pieces, the length of each piece and the order
of parts within each piece is generally not known in advance.
In the theatre, sound has to react to what happens on stage.
When working along with a piece of music or a film score, it can be more efficient and
inspirational to start with an improvisation, which is later refined into the final product.

This is exactly what Live’s unique Session View is for.

7.1 Session View Clips

The Controls for a Session View Clip.

1.

2.

Each clip in the Session View has a triangular button at the left edge. Click the button with the
mouse to “launch“ clip playback at any time, or pre-select a clip by clicking on its name, and
launch it using the computer’s Enter key. You can then move on to the neighboring clips using
the arrow keys. Please refer to the manual section on clip launch settings for details on how to
customize this behavior.
Click on a square Clip Stop button to stop a running clip, either in one of the track’s slots, or in
the Track Status field below the Session grid.

Pressing the 0 key while a Session View clip(s) is selected will deactivate that clip(s).

Clips can be controlled remotely with the computer keyboard or a MIDI controller. They can even be
mapped to MIDI note ranges so that they play chromatically.

Clips can be played at any time and in any order. The layout of clips does not predetermine their
order; the Session grid offers random access to the clips it contains.

Notice that, even if you stop playback for a Session View clip, the Play button in the Control Bar will
remain highlighted, and the Arrangement Position fields will continue running. These fields keep a
continuous flow of musical time going, so that you can always know your position in song time during
a live performance or while recording into the Arrangement, regardless of what your individual
Session clips are doing.

You can always return the Arrangement Position fields to 1.1.1 and stop playback for the entire Live
Set by pressing the Control Bar’s Stop button twice.

The Arrangement Position Fields and the Stop Button.

Clips can be renamed using the Rename command in the Edit menu or the clip’s context menu. You
can rename several selected clips at once by executing the Rename command. You can also enter
your own info text for a clip via the Edit Info Text command in the Edit menu or in the clip’s context
menu. The context menu also contains a color palette where you can choose a custom clip color.

Clips can be reordered by drag-and-drop. Multiple adjacent or nonadjacent clips can be selected at
once by Shift -clicking or Ctrl -clicking, respectively.

Slots in Group Tracks show a shaded area to indicate that at least one of the contained tracks
contains a clip in that scene. The color of the shading is the color of the left-most clip in the group.
These group slots also contain launch buttons which will launch all of the respective clips. Group slots
which have no corresponding clips contain stop buttons. Clicking in any group slot selects all of the
clips it refers to.

Group Slots and Group Launch Buttons.
