---
id: 9.2.5.1
title: "Adjusting Auto-Warp Results"
chapter: 9
---
# 9.2.5.1 Adjusting Auto-Warp Results

The Auto-Warp algorithm usually estimates the audio clip’s tempo correctly, ensuring that it syncs
perfectly with the Set’s tempo. However, you can adjust the auto-warped results manually if they are
not what you expected.

When adjusting Warp Markers for longer samples, we suggest activating the metronome in the
Control Bar, which can provide a steady tempo reference.

The Metronome Switch.

In some cases Auto-Warp guesses the tempo correctly but gets the downbeat wrong. To fix this, you
can use one of the following methods:

•

•

•

Hold Shift while dragging from a Warp Marker to adjust the position of the waveform under
the marker.
Move the insert marker to the downbeat and use the context menu’s Set 1.1.1 Here command to
move the start marker to that location.
Zoom in and create a Warp Marker on the downbeat, then drag the marker to the beginning of
the first bar in the timeline.

Dragging a Warp Marker to Set the Start Position.

If you have a sample that has been edited for seamless looping, you can easily adjust the Auto-Warp
results using the Warp Sample as… command in the Sample Editor’s context menu. The command will
display a suggested loop length that fits the Set’s tempo.

The Warp Sample As… Context Menu Option.

You can also use Auto-Warp for a specific section of a sample. For example, you can select and warp
a breakbeat from a longer song. To do so, select time in the Sample Editor by dragging over the
portion of the sample you want to isolate. Then use the Warp Selection as… command in the context
menu. Auto-Warp sets what it assumes is the most fitting loop length, adds start and end loop markers
to match, and then warps the selection so that it fills the loop.

Warping a Selected Portion of a Sample.

For certain samples, you may want more precise control of the Auto-Warp results. The best way to go
about this is to warp the audio in sections, working from left to right. You can set Warp Markers at the
start and end of each correctly warped section to pin them into place. Various shortcuts for the
Sample Editor can help make this process a bit faster. For example, you can hold down the Ctrl
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier to select multiple Warp Markers and then move them together.

In the Sample Editor’s context menu, there are several Warp From Here… commands that provide
multiple ways of resetting Warp Markers to the right of a grid division or Warp Marker, leaving any
markers to the left unchanged. These commands can be used at any point in the timeline, including at
the start marker.

•

•

•

•

Warp From Here runs the Auto-Warp algorithm for the audio to the right of the selected marker.
If no marker is selected, one will be added at the specified point on the grid.
Warp From Here (Start At …) uses the tempo of the Set as a baseline for auto-warping. If you
want to first update the Set’s tempo to match the clip’s BPM, deactivate warping for the clip so
that it plays back at its original speed. Then use the Tap Tempo button in the Control Bar to
match the tempo of the clip to the Set. After setting the tempo, re-enable warping for the clip
and use the Warp From Here (Start At …) command to use your tapped tempo as a reference.
Warp From Here (Straight) works best for samples that have no tempo variations. A single
Warp Marker will be set at the starting point based on the estimated original BPM of the
sample.
Warp … BPM From Here will also set a single Warp Marker at the starting point, but in this
case, the clip is assumed to have the same tempo as the Set. This command is useful if you

already know the precise BPM of the sample and can type it into the Control Bar’s tempo field
before warping.
