---
id: 9.2.4
title: "Warping Short Samples"
chapter: 9
---
# 9.2.4 Warping Short Samples

The following sections illustrate how warping can be used to sync different kinds of short samples with
a Set’s tempo. These scenarios assume that the Loop/Warp Short Samples option in the Record,
Warp & Launch Settings is enabled so that newly added samples are automatically warped when
added to a Set, which is the default behavior.

9.2.4.1 Even-Length Loops

When you import a sample, Live assumes that it contains a well-cut musical loop of 1, 2, 4, 8, or 16
bars in length, and sets the tempo accordingly. Additionally, two Warp Markers are created: one at
the start of the sample and one at the end.

A Four-Bar Loop in the Sample Editor.

The sample’s estimated tempo is shown in the BPM field of the Audio Utilities panel. If you know the
exact BPM, you can type it into the field. If you’re not sure of the precise tempo, you can hold Shift
while dragging in the slider to adjust the BPM in fine increments. You can also hold Shift and drag
from the clip’s edge in Arrangement View to stretch or compress the clip’s tempo.

The BPM Field in the Audio Utilities Panel.

Sometimes the estimation of the original tempo is incorrect, and the BPM field may show a tempo that
is either twice as fast or half as slow. You can correct this by using the ×2 and ÷2 buttons to double or
halve the tempo, respectively.

9.2.4.2 Odd-Length Loops

Samples that have an odd number of bars will play out of sync as Live will initially assume that the
loop contains an even number of bars due to the default 4/4 time signature setting.

For synced playback, a Warp Marker at the end of the sample needs to be placed at the beginning
of an even bar, for example, bar eight in a nine-bar loop. To fix this, simply add a marker to the
correct bar.

Additionally, Live may assume that some loops with odd bars are longer or shorter than they actually
are, e.g., a nine-bar loop may be mistaken for an eight-bar loop. In this case, the last bar may not be
visible initially. To fix this, you can drag a Warp Marker at the end of the sample toward the right until
the eighth bar becomes visible.

9.2.4.3 Uneven-Length Loops

Samples that have not been edited for seamless looping or have no distinct beat pattern will also play
out of sync.

You can correct this by moving the insert marker to the first downbeat in the sample and then using the
Set 1.1.1 Here context menu option to place a Warp Marker there.

Use the Set 1.1.1 Here Command to Place the First Warp Marker.

Once the first Warp Marker is set, you can then use the Warp From Here context menu option. To
eliminate extra silence at the end of the loop, you can place a Warp Marker before the silent portion
of the sample.

9.2.4.4 Multi-Clip Warping

When you select multiple clips that are of the same length and then add or adjust Warp Markers to
one of them, those changes will automatically apply to all the selected clips. This feature is particularly
useful when you have several clips with the same rhythm and want to alter the timing uniformly. For
example, if you have a recorded multitrack performance and want to correct any timing issues across
all tracks.
