---
id: 9.2.3.1
title: "Transients and Pseudo-Warp Markers"
chapter: 9
---
# 9.2.3.1 Transients and Pseudo-Warp Markers

When you first load a sample into a track, Live automatically analyzes the audio and finds its
transients. These are amplitude peaks that indicate where notes or beats begin. Transients are usually
good places to put Warp Markers.

Transients are represented by small gray markers at the top of the Sample Editor.

Transient Markers in the Sample Editor.

You can manually create or delete transients via the corresponding commands in the Create menu, or
by using the shortcuts Ctrl
Backspace (Win) / Cmd
the Reset Transients option in the Sample Editor’s context menu.

Delete (Mac). To remove all manually created transients, use

I (Mac) and Ctrl

I (Win) / Cmd

Shift

Shift

Shift

Shift

To create Warp Markers for all transients in a time selection, use the Insert Warp Markers command in
the Create menu or use the shortcut Ctrl
within the selected area, Warp Markers will be created at the start and end of the selection.

I (Mac). If there are no transients

I (Win) / Cmd

Pseudo-Warp Markers appear when you hover over transient markers. They look like regular Warp
Markers but are gray instead of yellow. Double-clicking or dragging a pseudo-marker turns it into an
actual Warp Marker. If there are no Warp Markers after the newly created marker, the clip’s tempo
will also change. Holding the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier while creating a Warp Marker
from a pseudo-marker also creates Warp Markers at the adjacent transients. You can hold Shift
and drag a pseudo-marker to move the transient to a new location in the Sample Editor.

9.2.3.2 Saving Warp Markers with a Sample File

Warp Markers are automatically saved with the Live Set; however, you can also save them with the
sample file itself, so that they appear in the Sample Editor anytime you drag the file into a track. To do
so, click the Save button in the clip’s title bar. Note that it is only possible to save default clip settings
for your own samples, and not for any of Live’s Core Library or Pack content.

When a sample is saved with Warp Markers, Auto-Warp will have no effect. However, you can still
manually initiate auto-warping using any of the Warp From… context menu options.
