---
id: 9.2
title: "Warping"
chapter: 9
---
# 9.2 Warping

Live’s ability to play any sample in sync with a chosen tempo is an important and useful feature.
Warping allows for seamless beat matching, rhythmic experimentation, and sound design, as well as
track synchronization during playback and live performances.

The warping properties for audio clips are located in the Clip View’s Audio Utilities panel. You can
double-click on an audio clip in the Session or Arrangement View to open the Clip View.

The Audio Tab’s Warping Controls.

The Warp switch toggles warping on or off for an audio clip.

When the Warp switch is off, the sample plays at its original tempo, unaffected by the Set’s current
tempo. This is useful for non-rhythmic samples, such as percussion one shots, textures, sound effects,
and spoken word, for example.

You can turn the Warp switch on to synchronize rhythmically structured samples, such as loops or
entire songs, with the Set’s tempo.

9.2.1 Warping Options in Settings

In addition to using the Warp switch to enable warping in individual clips, you can also configure the
warping behavior for samples when they are loaded via the Record, Warp & Launch Settings. When
a sample is first imported, Live will decide whether it is short or long, and will then apply one of the
options described below.

The Loop/Warp Short Samples option lets you choose the default warping state for short samples:

•
•
•
•

Unwarped One Shot - Samples will not be warped when loaded.
Warped One Shot - Samples will be warped based on the default Warp Mode but not looped.
Warped Loop - Samples will be warped and looped.
Auto - Live will automatically apply one of the above options based on what would work best
for the specific sample. This option is selected by default.

The Auto-Warp Long Samples option you choose whether long samples are automatically warped
when loaded or not. This option is enabled by default. A Warp Marker will be added to the first beat
for each bar once the sample is auto-warped. If this option is switched off, long samples will be
unwarped when they are added to tracks.

The Default Warp Mode option lets you set which Warp Mode is automatically applied to samples
when they are warped. The Warp Mode defines the algorithm used for time-stretching the audio,
which affects the clip’s sound. Beats mode is initially set as the default Warp Mode.

9.2.2 Importing Samples

You can drag samples into a Set from folders on your computer, or you can use the Import Audio
File… command in the Create menu when an audio track is selected to import MP3, AAC, Ogg
Vorbis, Ogg FLAC, or FLAC files. When using this command, files are added at the insert marker in the
Arrangement View or inserted into the selected clip slot in the Session View.

When a file is imported into Live for the first time, it is analyzed and cannot be played or edited until
the analysis process is complete. Once analyzed, the sample will be accessible in the Sample Editor,
and in most cases, synced with the Set’s tempo.

9.2.3 Warp Markers

Warp Markers let you lock a specific point in a sample, such as a transient, to a particular place in the
timeline. You can use markers to create a realistic map of the audio’s timing or to alter its rhythm.
When a sample is first imported, some initial Warp Markers are populated; however, you can
manually add any number of markers as needed.

Double-click anywhere in the upper half of the Sample Editor to add a Warp Marker at that location.
I (Mac), which will place a Warp Marker
You can also use the shortcut Ctrl
at the insert marker. Markers can be moved with the arrow keys or dragged to different points in time
as needed.

I (Win) / Cmd

Warp Markers in the Sample Editor.

When a Warp Marker is selected, you can hold Shift to drag and move the waveform; this lets you
finely adjust the starting point of the audio under the marker.

To delete Warp Markers you can double-click them, or select the corresponding time in the Sample
Editor and press the Backspace (Win) or Delete (Mac) key.

If you want the Sample Editor to scroll during playback while you work with clips, you can enable the
Follow switch in the Control Bar. Note that Follow will pause if you make an edit in the Sample Editor.
You can launch playback or click in the Arrangement or clip scrub area to restart Follow.

The Follow Switch in the Control Bar.

9.2.3.1 Transients and Pseudo-Warp Markers

When you first load a sample into a track, Live automatically analyzes the audio and finds its
transients. These are amplitude peaks that indicate where notes or beats begin. Transients are usually
good places to put Warp Markers.

Transients are represented by small gray markers at the top of the Sample Editor.

Transient Markers in the Sample Editor.

You can manually create or delete transients via the corresponding commands in the Create menu, or
by using the shortcuts Ctrl
Backspace (Win) / Cmd
the Reset Transients option in the Sample Editor’s context menu.

Delete (Mac). To remove all manually created transients, use

I (Mac) and Ctrl

I (Win) / Cmd

Shift

Shift

Shift

Shift

To create Warp Markers for all transients in a time selection, use the Insert Warp Markers command in
the Create menu or use the shortcut Ctrl
within the selected area, Warp Markers will be created at the start and end of the selection.

I (Mac). If there are no transients

I (Win) / Cmd

Pseudo-Warp Markers appear when you hover over transient markers. They look like regular Warp
Markers but are gray instead of yellow. Double-clicking or dragging a pseudo-marker turns it into an
actual Warp Marker. If there are no Warp Markers after the newly created marker, the clip’s tempo
will also change. Holding the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier while creating a Warp Marker
from a pseudo-marker also creates Warp Markers at the adjacent transients. You can hold Shift
and drag a pseudo-marker to move the transient to a new location in the Sample Editor.

9.2.3.2 Saving Warp Markers with a Sample File

Warp Markers are automatically saved with the Live Set; however, you can also save them with the
sample file itself, so that they appear in the Sample Editor anytime you drag the file into a track. To do
so, click the Save button in the clip’s title bar. Note that it is only possible to save default clip settings
for your own samples, and not for any of Live’s Core Library or Pack content.

When a sample is saved with Warp Markers, Auto-Warp will have no effect. However, you can still
manually initiate auto-warping using any of the Warp From… context menu options.

9.2.4 Warping Short Samples

The following sections illustrate how warping can be used to sync different kinds of short samples with
a Set’s tempo. These scenarios assume that the Loop/Warp Short Samples option in the Record,
Warp & Launch Settings is enabled so that newly added samples are automatically warped when
added to a Set, which is the default behavior.

9.2.4.1 Even-Length Loops

When you import a sample, Live assumes that it contains a well-cut musical loop of 1, 2, 4, 8, or 16
bars in length, and sets the tempo accordingly. Additionally, two Warp Markers are created: one at
the start of the sample and one at the end.

A Four-Bar Loop in the Sample Editor.

The sample’s estimated tempo is shown in the BPM field of the Audio Utilities panel. If you know the
exact BPM, you can type it into the field. If you’re not sure of the precise tempo, you can hold Shift
while dragging in the slider to adjust the BPM in fine increments. You can also hold Shift and drag
from the clip’s edge in Arrangement View to stretch or compress the clip’s tempo.

The BPM Field in the Audio Utilities Panel.

Sometimes the estimation of the original tempo is incorrect, and the BPM field may show a tempo that
is either twice as fast or half as slow. You can correct this by using the ×2 and ÷2 buttons to double or
halve the tempo, respectively.

9.2.4.2 Odd-Length Loops

Samples that have an odd number of bars will play out of sync as Live will initially assume that the
loop contains an even number of bars due to the default 4/4 time signature setting.

For synced playback, a Warp Marker at the end of the sample needs to be placed at the beginning
of an even bar, for example, bar eight in a nine-bar loop. To fix this, simply add a marker to the
correct bar.

Additionally, Live may assume that some loops with odd bars are longer or shorter than they actually
are, e.g., a nine-bar loop may be mistaken for an eight-bar loop. In this case, the last bar may not be
visible initially. To fix this, you can drag a Warp Marker at the end of the sample toward the right until
the eighth bar becomes visible.

9.2.4.3 Uneven-Length Loops

Samples that have not been edited for seamless looping or have no distinct beat pattern will also play
out of sync.

You can correct this by moving the insert marker to the first downbeat in the sample and then using the
Set 1.1.1 Here context menu option to place a Warp Marker there.

Use the Set 1.1.1 Here Command to Place the First Warp Marker.

Once the first Warp Marker is set, you can then use the Warp From Here context menu option. To
eliminate extra silence at the end of the loop, you can place a Warp Marker before the silent portion
of the sample.

9.2.4.4 Multi-Clip Warping

When you select multiple clips that are of the same length and then add or adjust Warp Markers to
one of them, those changes will automatically apply to all the selected clips. This feature is particularly
useful when you have several clips with the same rhythm and want to alter the timing uniformly. For
example, if you have a recorded multitrack performance and want to correct any timing issues across
all tracks.

9.2.5 Auto-Warping Long Samples

The following section illustrates how auto-warping can be used to sync longer samples or entire songs
with a Set’s tempo. These scenarios assume that the Auto-Warp Long Samples option in the Record,

Warp & Launch Settings is enabled so that newly added samples are automatically warped when
added to a Set, which is the default behavior.

Auto-Warp Results in the Sample Editor.

9.2.5.1 Adjusting Auto-Warp Results

The Auto-Warp algorithm usually estimates the audio clip’s tempo correctly, ensuring that it syncs
perfectly with the Set’s tempo. However, you can adjust the auto-warped results manually if they are
not what you expected.

When adjusting Warp Markers for longer samples, we suggest activating the metronome in the
Control Bar, which can provide a steady tempo reference.

The Metronome Switch.

In some cases Auto-Warp guesses the tempo correctly but gets the downbeat wrong. To fix this, you
can use one of the following methods:

•

•

•

Hold Shift while dragging from a Warp Marker to adjust the position of the waveform under
the marker.
Move the insert marker to the downbeat and use the context menu’s Set 1.1.1 Here command to
move the start marker to that location.
Zoom in and create a Warp Marker on the downbeat, then drag the marker to the beginning of
the first bar in the timeline.

Dragging a Warp Marker to Set the Start Position.

If you have a sample that has been edited for seamless looping, you can easily adjust the Auto-Warp
results using the Warp Sample as… command in the Sample Editor’s context menu. The command will
display a suggested loop length that fits the Set’s tempo.

The Warp Sample As… Context Menu Option.

You can also use Auto-Warp for a specific section of a sample. For example, you can select and warp
a breakbeat from a longer song. To do so, select time in the Sample Editor by dragging over the
portion of the sample you want to isolate. Then use the Warp Selection as… command in the context
menu. Auto-Warp sets what it assumes is the most fitting loop length, adds start and end loop markers
to match, and then warps the selection so that it fills the loop.

Warping a Selected Portion of a Sample.

For certain samples, you may want more precise control of the Auto-Warp results. The best way to go
about this is to warp the audio in sections, working from left to right. You can set Warp Markers at the
start and end of each correctly warped section to pin them into place. Various shortcuts for the
Sample Editor can help make this process a bit faster. For example, you can hold down the Ctrl
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier to select multiple Warp Markers and then move them together.

In the Sample Editor’s context menu, there are several Warp From Here… commands that provide
multiple ways of resetting Warp Markers to the right of a grid division or Warp Marker, leaving any
markers to the left unchanged. These commands can be used at any point in the timeline, including at
the start marker.

•

•

•

•

Warp From Here runs the Auto-Warp algorithm for the audio to the right of the selected marker.
If no marker is selected, one will be added at the specified point on the grid.
Warp From Here (Start At …) uses the tempo of the Set as a baseline for auto-warping. If you
want to first update the Set’s tempo to match the clip’s BPM, deactivate warping for the clip so
that it plays back at its original speed. Then use the Tap Tempo button in the Control Bar to
match the tempo of the clip to the Set. After setting the tempo, re-enable warping for the clip
and use the Warp From Here (Start At …) command to use your tapped tempo as a reference.
Warp From Here (Straight) works best for samples that have no tempo variations. A single
Warp Marker will be set at the starting point based on the estimated original BPM of the
sample.
Warp … BPM From Here will also set a single Warp Marker at the starting point, but in this
case, the clip is assumed to have the same tempo as the Set. This command is useful if you

already know the precise BPM of the sample and can type it into the Control Bar’s tempo field
before warping.

9.2.6 Manipulating Grooves

While Warp Markers can be used to accurately sync the musical timing in a sample, they can also be
used to deliberately alter the rhythm for creative effects.

For example, if you notice that a transient in a percussive sample comes late, simply pin a Warp
Marker to it and then drag the marker to align it with the correct beat. You may want to pin the
adjacent transients as well, to avoid affecting neighboring regions in the sample.

Using Warp Markers to Manipulate the Groove.

Altering a sample’s natural rhythm using Warp Markers is an interesting creative technique,
particularly when used together with grooves.

9.2.7 Quantizing Audio

In addition to using Warp Markers to time-stretch a sample, you can also automatically snap a
waveform to the grid using quantization. Quantization aligns the audio by moving the nearest
transient to the closest grid line.

To quantize audio, click anywhere in the Sample Editor to bring it into focus, and then use the
Quantize command from the Edit menu or the shortcut Ctrl
options align the audio based on the current quantization settings, which can be adjusted via the
Quantize panel.

U (Win) / Cmd

U (Mac). These

The Quantize Panel.

Audio can be quantized to match the current grid size or a specific grid division, including triplets. To
achieve a more subtle result, use the Amount control to adjust the level of applied quantization. This
control shifts the Warp Markers by a percentage of the chosen quantization value.
