---
id: 10.5.2
title: "Selecting Notes and Timespan"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.5.2 Selecting Notes and Timespan

Clicking in the MIDI Note Editor selects a point in time, represented by a flashing insert marker. You
can also move the insert marker to a specific location with the left and right arrow keys, according to
the grid settings. Holding the Ctrl (Win) / Option (Mac) key while pressing the left or right arrow
key moves the insert marker to the previous or next note boundary. The insert marker can be moved to
the beginning or end of a MIDI clip by pressing the Home or End key, respectively.

Clicking and dragging in the MIDI Note Editor selects a timespan. If the dashed line of the selected
timespan enclosed any notes, they will automatically also become selected. Press Enter to toggle

the selection between the timespan and any notes that are contained within it. Collapse the time or
note selection by clicking in the MIDI Note Editor outside of the selection or by pressing the Esc key.
You can also collapse time selection by using the arrow keys, which will move the insert marker. Note
that if you use the arrow keys with a note selection, the selected notes will be moved on the timeline
(when using left and right arrow keys) or transposed (when using up and down arrow keys).

You can also select a timespan using the computer keyboard. Hold down Shift while pressing the
arrow keys to select a timespan starting from the insert marker, according to the grid settings. Using
this combination with an existing time selection will extend or narrow the selection. Adding the Alt
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) key to the combination will extend or narrow the selection irrespective of the
grid settings. Holding Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) with Shift while pressing the arrow keys
extends or narrows the timespan to the next or previous note boundary.

You can select an individual note by clicking on it. You can also use the keyboard: place the insert
marker next to the note you want to select, then press Ctrl (Win) / Option (Mac) together with
the up or down arrow key to select a note nearest to the insert marker. Using the combination again
will change the selection to the next or previous note in time. To change the selection to the next note
in the same key track, hold Ctrl (Win) / Option (Mac) while pressing the left or right arrow keys.

Multiple notes can be selected by clicking and dragging in the MIDI Note Editor. You can add the
Shift modifier to add more notes to your current selection. You can also remove a single note from
your selection by holding down Shift and clicking on it. Holding Shift and clicking on the piano
ruler adds all notes in a single key track to the current selection, or removes them if they were already
selected. Click away from the selection in the MIDI Note Editor or press Esc to deselect the notes.

You can also select multiple notes with the keyboard by selecting a note, then pressing Ctrl
(Win) / Option
several times or hold it to continue adding to your existing note selection. The Ctrl
Cmd

Shift (Mac) in combination with the up or down arrow key. Use the shortcut
A (Win) /

A (Mac) keyboard shortcut selects all notes, while the Esc key deselects all selected notes.

Shift

If selecting multiple notes, but not all of the notes in the clip, it is possible to swap between the
currently selected notes and the unselected notes by using the Invert Selection command available
from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu. Alternatively, Ctrl
A (Mac) keyboard shortcut can also be used.
Cmd

Shift

Shift

A (Win) /
