---
id: 10.5.13
title: "Editing Probabilities"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.5.13 Editing Probabilities

Note probability determines the likelihood of a MIDI note being triggered during clip playback. You
can set probability for notes using the Chance Editor.

The Chance Editor.

Note that the Chance Editor lane is hidden by default and can be shown by clicking on the triangular
Lane Selector drop-down menu to the right of the Show/Hide All Expression Editors toggle on the left
of the Clip Content Toolbar.

To change a MIDI note’s probability value between 0-100%, click and drag on the note’s probability
marker in the Chance Editor. To help you locate the probability marker belonging to a MIDI note that
may be stacked vertically with others, Live highlights the probability marker for whichever note your
mouse is hovering over. As you drag the marker, the current probability value will be displayed in the
Chance Editor’s lane as well as the Status Bar. If multiple notes with different probability values are
selected, a range of probability values will be shown.

Note probability values can also be entered manually with a computer keyboard by first selecting a
probability marker, then typing the numerical value on the keyboard and pressing the Enter key.
Using the up or down arrow keys on the keyboard changes the values of selected probability markers
by +/-10%. Holding the Shift key while using the arrow keys allows fine-tuning the values of the
selected probability markers.

A small triangle is displayed in the upper-left corner of notes with probability values less than 100%.
The triangle is only visible if the key track height is expanded enough; otherwise, it will be hidden. To
increase the key track height, click and drag right in the note ruler and the MIDI Note Editor will zoom
in.

It is possible to randomize note probability values within a specified range, relative to the initial note
probability value. This range is set using the Randomization Amount slider in Clip Content Toolbar and
can help in creating variations on each loop for added interest or in humanizing the piece.

The Randomize Amount Slider.

Note probability will be randomly changed from the original value, with the new value falling on
either side of the initial probability, within the range set in the Randomization Amount slider. For
example, if the original probability value was 50% and the Randomization Amount was set to 25%,
the randomized probability values will range from 25-75%. When notes are selected, adjusting the
percentage in the slider will immediately randomize probability values for those notes. You can also
type in a value to set the randomization range using the keyboard, and apply the new range using the
Enter key. If no notes are selected, changing the value in the slider will have no effect until the
Enter key is pressed or the Randomize button is used, at which point the randomization will be
applied to all note probabilities.

The Randomize Button.

10.5.13.1 Probability Groups

In addition to setting a probability value for individual notes, you can also assign a single probability
value to a group of notes, so that either all notes in the group play according to the assigned value or
just one note out of the group plays at a time. These two probability group types are available:

Play All — all notes are played with the probability value set with a probability marker. Play One —
only one note in the group is played at a time, according to the set probability. The note which plays is
selected at random.

To create a note probability group, select the notes you would like to be a part of the group and press
either the Play All or Play One button in the Clip Content Toolbar, depending on the type of
probability group you wish to create.

Play All and Play One Buttons.

Once grouped, a single probability marker will be displayed for the notes in the Chance Editor: the
marker will have a diamond handle for the Play All group type or a triangle handle for the Play One
type. Right-clicking on a group probability marker allows you to change the probability group type.
You can also change the group type using the Play All or Play One buttons in the Clip Content
Toolbar.

Apart from the dedicated buttons, you can create note probability groups in a few other ways: - Use
the context menu options Group Notes (Play All) or Group Notes (Play One) in the MIDI Note Editor.
- Use the Edit menu command Group Notes (Play All) or Group Notes (Play One). - Use the
keyboard shortcut Ctrl
type as the group last created through either the dedicated buttons or the context menu.

G (Mac). The shortcut will create a group of the same

G (Win) / Cmd

Hovering over a note that belongs to a group highlights all the notes within the group. When selected
notes belong to a probability group, the group’s type will be displayed in the Status Bar. If all notes
belong to the same group, the type is listed explicitly, otherwise it is marked with an asterisk.

The small triangle displayed in the upper-left corner of notes with probability values less than 100% is
always displayed when a note belongs to a probability group, even if the probability of the group is
set to 100%.

To remove a note from a probability group, select it, then use the Ungroup button in the Clip Content
Toolbar. Alternatively, adding a note to a different group will automatically remove it from its original
group. In order to remove a probability group altogether, select all the notes in the group, then press
Ungroup.

The Ungroup Button.

You can also use the Edit menu command Ungroup Notes, the shortcut Ctrl
Cmd

G (Mac), or right-click on a grouped note marker and select the Ungroup Notes

Shift

G (Win) /

Shift

option. After notes are ungrouped, individual probability markers will be displayed for each note in
the Chance Editor once again.
