---
id: 10.5.3
title: "Find and Select Notes"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.5.3 Find and Select Notes

You can search for notes that fulfill specific criteria using note selection filters. Notes found in this way
are automatically selected, which can be helpful for quickly editing multiple notes of a specific pitch
or duration, for example.

Find and Select Notes Using Filters.

To show the filters, enable the Find and Select Notes toggle in the Clip View header. You can select a
filter for finding and selecting notes using the chooser below the toggle. Each filter has a set of
dedicated controls, including the option to invert your search by selecting any notes not included in
the filter’s search criteria. It is also possible to combine multiple filters to create more precise note
selections.

You can filter by eight different note properties:

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Pitch finds and selects the notes which have the pitch or pitches you specified via the Pitch
toggles. The filter finds notes in all octaves.
Time finds and selects notes within a specified time range. Use the Start and Length fields to set
the start point and length of the time range in beats, and the Repeat field to set the repetition
interval for the selected range in beats.
Chance finds and selects notes of the specified probability or within the specified probability
range, both of which can be set using the Min/Max Probability sliders.
Condition finds and selects notes that meet one of three conditions: Active, Chance, or Velocity
Deviation. When the Active toggle is enabled, all active notes are selected. When the Chance
toggle is enabled, all notes with probability values below 100% are selected. When the
Velocity Deviation toggle is enabled, all notes with velocity deviation are selected.
Count finds and selects every nth note or chord in a sequence. The Every slider specifies which
nth note to include in the selection. For example, when set to 2, every second note is selected.
You can use the Offset slider to adjust which note is considered the first in the selection. The
Quantized toggle groups selected notes according to the current grid settings. When active,
each group of notes located within a grid step counts as a value of 1 in the Every slider. For
example, when the Every slider is set to 3 and the Quantized toggle is active with a fixed grid
of 1/16, every third sixteenth note is selected.
Duration finds and selects notes of the specified length or within the specified duration range,
both of which can be set using the Min/Max Duration sliders.
Scale finds and selects notes that belong to the specified scale. When the filter’s Use Clip Scale
toggle is active, notes that fall within the current clip scale are selected. When the toggle is off,
you can specify a scale to filter notes with the Scale Root and Scale Name choosers.
Velocity — finds and selects notes of the specified velocity or within the specified velocity
range, both of which can be set using the Min/Max Velocity sliders.

A filter is applied and notes are automatically selected as you adjust the filter’s parameters; a yellow
dot also appears next to the filter name in the Filter chooser to indicate that the filter is currently
applied. To apply another filter, select it in the Filter chooser and adjust its parameters. To deactivate
all filters being applied by Find and Select Notes, click anywhere in the MIDI Note Editor. Note that
this deselects all notes.

Each filter includes two general controls: the Invert toggle and the Select button. When you activate
the Invert toggle, all notes that do not match the filter’s search criteria are selected. The Select button
selects all notes that match the current filter criteria and is useful for reapplying a deactivated filter
without adjusting its parameters.

When the Find and Select Notes toggle is active, you can use the mouse to adjust note selections
created with the filters. For example, you can press Shift and click on a key in the piano ruler to
add all of the notes in that key track to the selection. You can also produce evenly spaced repeated
time selections by pressing Shift , and then clicking and dragging left or right in the MIDI Note
Editor.
