---
id: 10.5.12
title: "Editing Velocities"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.5.12 Editing Velocities

Note velocity data is recorded when a MIDI note is played as a result of pressing a key or a pad on a
controller and can be understood as a note’s loudness. In the MIDI Note Editor, note velocity is
visually indicated by the amount of saturation in the note’s color — less saturated notes play softly,
while more saturated notes play louder. You can use the Velocity Editor to adjust the velocity values
for the notes in a clip.

To change velocity for a MIDI note, click and drag on the associated marker in the Velocity Editor.
Velocity values will be shown numerically in the Velocity Editor’s lane header. To help you locate the
velocity marker belonging to a MIDI note that may be stacked vertically with others, Live highlights the
velocity marker for whichever note your mouse is hovering over.

Note Velocity Marker.

You can select multiple velocity markers to change by clicking with the Shift modifier held down.
To set a group of notes so that they all have the same velocity, select their markers in the Velocity
Editor, drag them up or down to either maximum or minimum velocity, and then adjust velocity to the
desired value.

To change the velocity of notes without opening the Velocity Editor, click any selected note and drag
vertically while pressing the Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier.

Velocity values can also be entered manually by first selecting the velocity marker, then typing the
numerical value on the computer keyboard and hitting the Enter key.

You can use the up or down arrow keys with Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) held down to increment the
values of selected velocity markers by +/-10. Holding the Shift key at the same time allows fine-
tuning the values of selected velocity markers.

Apart from manually adjusting velocity values for notes, you can also set a velocity range or
randomize the note velocity values using Velocity Controls available below the Editor lanes when the
Velocity Editor is selected.

Velocity Controls.

Velocity values for selected notes (or notes with selected markers) can be randomized by clicking on
the Randomize button. If no notes or markers are selected, values for all notes will be randomized.

The Randomize Button.

The Randomization Amount slider to the right of the Randomize button allows specifying a range of
randomized velocity values. Velocities will be randomly increased or decreased by a value between
zero and the number shown in the slider. The slider’s value can also be typed as a number with the
keyboard, and randomization is then triggered when the new value is validated using the Enter
key.

The Randomization Amount Slider.

The Ramp sliders can be used to create a velocity ramp for multiple notes. The Ramp Start Value slider
is used to set the velocity value for the first note in the selection, whereas the Ramp End Value slider
sets the value for the last note. The other notes in the selection are distributed evenly within the range
set by the Ramp sliders.

The Ramp Sliders.

The Velocity Deviation slider can be used to set a range for each note’s velocity. Velocity values are
then chosen randomly from within the specified range each time a note is played. Positive and
negative values can be set, which increase or decrease velocity, respectively. For example, if a
velocity range of +20 is set for a selected note with a velocity value of 60, a random value between
60 and 80 will be chosen each time the note is played.

The Velocity Deviation Slider.

The velocity range is indicated by the shaded area that appears above or below the velocity markers
and with a dot inside of the velocity markers. Double-clicking the velocity marker which has a velocity
range set will reset the range to 0.

Velocity Markers with Deviation Set.

If multiple notes are selected, the range in the Velocity Deviation slider will be adjusted accordingly to
the existing velocity values. For example, when increasing the velocity range, if one note’s velocity
value is set to 50 and another note’s to 25, the velocity range of the first note can be +77 at most,
whereas the range of the second note can be +102. Both values will then be displayed in the slider to
reflect this.

The Velocity Deviation Slider with Varied Ranges of Deviation.

You can also set the velocity range by holding Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) and dragging up or
down from a velocity marker. This applies both to individual notes and a note selection.

10.5.12.1 Drawing Velocities

Draw Mode allows drawing inside the Velocity Editor as a way of setting velocity values instead of
adjusting them manually. You can enable Draw Mode by toggling the Control Bar’s Draw Mode
button or by pressing the B key.

Drawing velocity affects notes located within a given grid division will be affected. If the notes are
selected, only those notes will be affected, even if there are other notes within the grid division. If no
notes are selected, all notes will be affected. The exact notes that will be affected are highlighted in
blue when hovering over the Velocity Editor.

To draw markers individually (as you would want to with a crescendo, for instance) deactivate grid
snapping with the Ctrl
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier. To draw markers along a straight line hold down the Alt (Win) /
Option (Mac) and drag the cursor. Add Shift to make the line horizontal.

4 (Mac) shortcut, or simply hold down the Alt

4 (Win) / Cmd

Drawing Identical Velocities (Left) and a Crescendo (Right).

To draw a velocity ramp with notes that are all in the same key track, click a key in the piano ruler to
select all notes within the desired key track and draw the ramp into the Velocity Editor.

10.5.12.2 Note Off Velocity

While the Velocity Editor allows you to adjust Note On velocities, you can also open the Release
Velocity Editor to show Note Off velocities.

Select the Release Velocity Editor via the Lane Selector.

Note Off (or “release”) velocity is a somewhat esoteric parameter. If you think of velocity as the
speed of pressing a key, you can look at release velocity as the speed at which the pressed-down key

is released. Release velocity is only supported by certain devices. Live’s Sampler instrument, for
example, provides Note Off velocity as a controller for a variety of parameters.
