---
id: 10.5.7
title: "Deactivating Notes"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.5.7 Deactivating Notes

To deactivate, or mute, a note (or notes), select it and press 0 , or use the Deactivate Note(s)
command in the Edit menu or in the piano ruler’s or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu. When a
note is deactivated it is grayed out and will not be played. Press 0 again to reactivate notes.

10.5.8 Note Operations

There are several additional ways in which you can edit notes in the MIDI Note Editor: dividing notes
into two or more parts with the Split and Chop operations respectively, and combining separate notes
of the same pitch using the Join operation.

10.5.8.1 Split

The Split operation divides notes into two parts. To use Split, hold the E key, then draw a line across
notes to split them. You can also hold E and click and drag horizontally inside a note to
simultaneously split and adjust the split position.

Add the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier to snap the split position to the current grid.

Splitting Notes with a Mouse.

When no notes are selected you can also use the Ctrl
shortcut to split all notes intersecting with the insert marker or spanning beyond the time selection. You
can also use the Split Note(s) command from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu.
Note that the command is only available when at least one note intersects with the insert marker or
spans beyond the time selection.

E (Mac) keyboard

E (Win) / Cmd

10.5.8.2 Chop

The Chop operation can be used to divide notes into several parts based on the grid settings.

Chopping Notes.

There are different ways of chopping notes depending on whether you use a computer keyboard or a
mouse.

Chop notes using the keyboard: - Select notes and press the Ctrl
E (Mac) key
combination to chop the selected notes into parts based on the current grid settings. You can also use
the Chop Note(s) on Grid command from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu. -
Select notes, press the Chop shortcut, then continue holding the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier
and use the up and down arrow keys to increase or decrease the number of parts into which the notes
are chopped. Add the Shift modifier to increase or decrease the number of parts by a power of
two.

E (Win) / Cmd

Chop notes using the mouse: - Select notes, then press the E
key combination, hover over one of the selected notes and drag up or down to increase or decrease
the number of parts into which the notes are chopped. Add the Shift modifier to increase or
decrease the number of parts by a power of two.

Ctrl (Win) / E

Option (Mac)

Increasing the Number of Parts Into Which Notes Are Chopped.

10.5.8.3 Join

The Join operation creates one note from all selected notes of the same pitch, preserving MPE contents
and joining the MPE envelopes along with the MIDI notes.

To join notes, select notes in the same key track, then press the Ctrl
keyboard shortcut or use the Join Notes command from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s
context menu.

J (Win) / Cmd

J (Mac)

The Join Notes Context Menu Command.

10.5.9 Pitch and Time Utilities

The Pitch and Time Utilities panel contains tools that offer a number of ways to quickly manipulate the
notes within a MIDI clip. These utilities affect the selected notes or a time range. If nothing is selected,
any changes applied with button controls will affect the whole clip.

10.5.9.1 Transpose

The Transpose slider displays the note pitch range. It can also be used to transpose a note or notes in
a time selection. Drag up or down in the slider or type a number into the slider to transpose notes by a
chosen number semitones or scale degrees (if a clip scale is active).

The Transpose Slider.

You can also transpose the selected notes directly in the MIDI Note Editor with the up and down
arrow keys. To transpose by octaves, hold down Shift while pressing the up or down arrow keys.

10.5.9.2 Fit to Scale

The Fit to Scale button adjusts pitches of the notes within the clip or the selection so that they fall within
the scale set for the clip. Notes are adjusted to the closest scale degree of a given scale or, in case of
an equal distance, to the lower scale degree. If a scale is not active for the clip, the button will be
greyed out.

The Fit to Scale Button.

10.5.9.3 Invert

Invert is a pitch operation where the position of the highest note is swapped with the position of the
lowest note, with other notes being flipped vertically, resulting in the note selection being turned
“upside-down”.

The Invert Button.

If a scale is active in the clip, Invert will calculate the inverse position of notes relative to the current
scale degrees.

Note: Invert is not to be confused with the Invert Selection option described in the Selecting Notes
and Timespan section earlier in this chapter: the former is a pitch change performed on a note
selection, whereas the latter changes what is selected.

10.5.9.4 Intervals

You can use the Interval Size slider and the Add Interval button to set the number of semitones or
scale degrees (if a clip scale is active) by which the pitches of new notes will be shifted in relation to
the pitches of the original note selection. This is useful for quickly creating chords.

If there is an existing note selection, adjusting the value in the Interval Size slider will result in new
notes being immediately added and selected in the MIDI Note Editor. When no notes are selected,
the slider merely sets the interval size which then needs to be applied with the Add Interval button. If
the button is then used with no note selection, new notes will be added at the specified interval for all
of the existing notes in the clip.

The Interval Size Slider and the Add Interval Button.

10.5.9.5 Stretch

It is possible to quickly adjust the note length of selected notes with the three note stretching options in
the Pitch and Time Utilities panel: the Stretch Factor control and the Double (×2) and Halve (/2)
buttons.

Stretch sets the factor by which the note length is changed. The ×2 and /2 buttons to the right of the
Stretch control respectively extend or shorten the note duration, time selection, or loop region by a
factor of 2.

Note Stretching Options.

Note that the Stretch control has no effect on the length of the loop region.

10.5.9.6 Note Duration

You can set the same note duration, or length, for all selected notes. It is possible to fit note lengths
within time range, use the current grid setting as the basis for note duration, or select a specific length
from the options available in the Duration drop-down menu.

Once you select the desired note length, apply it to the selected notes with the Set Length button. If no
notes are selected, pressing the button will apply the specified note length to all notes in the clip.

Note Duration Options.

10.5.9.7 Humanize

Humanize adds a variation to note starts times, removing any potential mechanical feel from the
composition. The variation percentage is set using the Humanize Amount slider, up to a quarter of a
grid division before or after the original note position, and can be applied with the Humanize button.

Humanize Options.

10.5.9.8 Reverse

The Reverse button rearranges the selection so that the position of the last note is swapped with the
position of the first note and the positions of the notes in between are flipped horizontally. When no
notes are selected, the entire clip is reversed.

The Reverse Button.

10.5.9.9 Legato

Pressing the Legato button results in the duration of each selected note being extended (or shortened),
so that it reaches the start of the next note. The last note gets extended to the end of the loop.

The Legato Button.

You can also use the Span MIDI Tool to apply legato note lengths.
