---
id: 10.5.5
title: "Changing Note Length"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.5.5 Changing Note Length

You can click on a note’s left or right edge and drag it to adjust the note’s length. As with note
positions, note lengths can be adjusted freely up to the previous or next grid line but will be quantized
when dragging further unless the Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier is held down.

You can also change note length using the computer keyboard. Shift plus the left or right arrow
keys extends or shortens the duration of selected notes, according to the grid settings. To extend or
retract notes without snapping to the grid, also hold Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac).

Changing Note Length.

You can extend the duration of all selected notes so that their start and end times match the current
time or note selection using the Fit to Time Range option or the Ctrl
Option

J (Mac) keyboard shortcut. The option is available as a command in the Edit menu or the
MIDI Note Editor’s context menu. You can also select the option from the Duration drop-down menu
in the Clip View’s Pitch and Time Utilities panel and apply it with the Set Length button.

J (Win) / Cmd

Alt

Fitting Notes into Time Range.

10.5.6 MIDI Note Stretch

MIDI Note Stretch Markers.

When multiple notes or a range of time are selected, Note Stretch markers will appear below the
scrub area, allowing notes to be scaled proportionally in time. The markers are a pair of downward-
pointing indicators that snap to the beginning and end of the selection.

By clicking and dragging one of the markers horizontally, the selected notes will be stretched in
proportion to their original lengths. Note Stretch markers can be freely moved until reaching the
previous or next grid or offset point, after which they will snap to the MIDI Note Editor’s grid lines
unless the grid is not shown or the Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier is held while dragging.

When the mouse is between the Note Stretch markers, a “pseudo” stretch marker will appear.
Dragging this stretches or compresses the material between the fixed markers without affecting the
material outside of them. The pseudo stretch marker has the same grid snapping behavior as fixed
markers.

One Note Stretch marker can be dragged beyond the boundary of another, which will mirror the
order of the stretched notes in relation to their initial sequence.

Adjusting the Note Stretch markers will also adjust the timing of any of the clip’s linked clip envelopes.
Unlinked clip envelopes are not affected.

It is also possible to stretch notes using dedicated Stretch controls in the Clip View’s Pitch and Time
Utilities panel.
