---
id: 10.5
title: "Editing MIDI Notes"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.5 Editing MIDI Notes

Editing in the MIDI Note Editor is similar to editing in the Arrangement. In both cases, your actions are
selection-based: you select something using the mouse or computer keyboard, then execute a
command (e.g., Cut, Copy, Paste, Duplicate) on the selection.

10.5.1 Non-Destructive Editing

You can always return your MIDI clip to its previous state by using the Edit menu’s Undo command.
Furthermore, if the MIDI clip being edited originated in a MIDI file on your hard drive, none of your
editing will alter the original MIDI file, as Live incorporates its contents into your Live Set when
importing.

10.5.2 Selecting Notes and Timespan

Clicking in the MIDI Note Editor selects a point in time, represented by a flashing insert marker. You
can also move the insert marker to a specific location with the left and right arrow keys, according to
the grid settings. Holding the Ctrl (Win) / Option (Mac) key while pressing the left or right arrow
key moves the insert marker to the previous or next note boundary. The insert marker can be moved to
the beginning or end of a MIDI clip by pressing the Home or End key, respectively.

Clicking and dragging in the MIDI Note Editor selects a timespan. If the dashed line of the selected
timespan enclosed any notes, they will automatically also become selected. Press Enter to toggle

the selection between the timespan and any notes that are contained within it. Collapse the time or
note selection by clicking in the MIDI Note Editor outside of the selection or by pressing the Esc key.
You can also collapse time selection by using the arrow keys, which will move the insert marker. Note
that if you use the arrow keys with a note selection, the selected notes will be moved on the timeline
(when using left and right arrow keys) or transposed (when using up and down arrow keys).

You can also select a timespan using the computer keyboard. Hold down Shift while pressing the
arrow keys to select a timespan starting from the insert marker, according to the grid settings. Using
this combination with an existing time selection will extend or narrow the selection. Adding the Alt
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) key to the combination will extend or narrow the selection irrespective of the
grid settings. Holding Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) with Shift while pressing the arrow keys
extends or narrows the timespan to the next or previous note boundary.

You can select an individual note by clicking on it. You can also use the keyboard: place the insert
marker next to the note you want to select, then press Ctrl (Win) / Option (Mac) together with
the up or down arrow key to select a note nearest to the insert marker. Using the combination again
will change the selection to the next or previous note in time. To change the selection to the next note
in the same key track, hold Ctrl (Win) / Option (Mac) while pressing the left or right arrow keys.

Multiple notes can be selected by clicking and dragging in the MIDI Note Editor. You can add the
Shift modifier to add more notes to your current selection. You can also remove a single note from
your selection by holding down Shift and clicking on it. Holding Shift and clicking on the piano
ruler adds all notes in a single key track to the current selection, or removes them if they were already
selected. Click away from the selection in the MIDI Note Editor or press Esc to deselect the notes.

You can also select multiple notes with the keyboard by selecting a note, then pressing Ctrl
(Win) / Option
several times or hold it to continue adding to your existing note selection. The Ctrl
Cmd

Shift (Mac) in combination with the up or down arrow key. Use the shortcut
A (Win) /

A (Mac) keyboard shortcut selects all notes, while the Esc key deselects all selected notes.

Shift

If selecting multiple notes, but not all of the notes in the clip, it is possible to swap between the
currently selected notes and the unselected notes by using the Invert Selection command available
from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu. Alternatively, Ctrl
A (Mac) keyboard shortcut can also be used.
Cmd

Shift

Shift

A (Win) /

10.5.3 Find and Select Notes

You can search for notes that fulfill specific criteria using note selection filters. Notes found in this way
are automatically selected, which can be helpful for quickly editing multiple notes of a specific pitch
or duration, for example.

Find and Select Notes Using Filters.

To show the filters, enable the Find and Select Notes toggle in the Clip View header. You can select a
filter for finding and selecting notes using the chooser below the toggle. Each filter has a set of
dedicated controls, including the option to invert your search by selecting any notes not included in
the filter’s search criteria. It is also possible to combine multiple filters to create more precise note
selections.

You can filter by eight different note properties:

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Pitch finds and selects the notes which have the pitch or pitches you specified via the Pitch
toggles. The filter finds notes in all octaves.
Time finds and selects notes within a specified time range. Use the Start and Length fields to set
the start point and length of the time range in beats, and the Repeat field to set the repetition
interval for the selected range in beats.
Chance finds and selects notes of the specified probability or within the specified probability
range, both of which can be set using the Min/Max Probability sliders.
Condition finds and selects notes that meet one of three conditions: Active, Chance, or Velocity
Deviation. When the Active toggle is enabled, all active notes are selected. When the Chance
toggle is enabled, all notes with probability values below 100% are selected. When the
Velocity Deviation toggle is enabled, all notes with velocity deviation are selected.
Count finds and selects every nth note or chord in a sequence. The Every slider specifies which
nth note to include in the selection. For example, when set to 2, every second note is selected.
You can use the Offset slider to adjust which note is considered the first in the selection. The
Quantized toggle groups selected notes according to the current grid settings. When active,
each group of notes located within a grid step counts as a value of 1 in the Every slider. For
example, when the Every slider is set to 3 and the Quantized toggle is active with a fixed grid
of 1/16, every third sixteenth note is selected.
Duration finds and selects notes of the specified length or within the specified duration range,
both of which can be set using the Min/Max Duration sliders.
Scale finds and selects notes that belong to the specified scale. When the filter’s Use Clip Scale
toggle is active, notes that fall within the current clip scale are selected. When the toggle is off,
you can specify a scale to filter notes with the Scale Root and Scale Name choosers.
Velocity — finds and selects notes of the specified velocity or within the specified velocity
range, both of which can be set using the Min/Max Velocity sliders.

A filter is applied and notes are automatically selected as you adjust the filter’s parameters; a yellow
dot also appears next to the filter name in the Filter chooser to indicate that the filter is currently
applied. To apply another filter, select it in the Filter chooser and adjust its parameters. To deactivate
all filters being applied by Find and Select Notes, click anywhere in the MIDI Note Editor. Note that
this deselects all notes.

Each filter includes two general controls: the Invert toggle and the Select button. When you activate
the Invert toggle, all notes that do not match the filter’s search criteria are selected. The Select button
selects all notes that match the current filter criteria and is useful for reapplying a deactivated filter
without adjusting its parameters.

When the Find and Select Notes toggle is active, you can use the mouse to adjust note selections
created with the filters. For example, you can press Shift and click on a key in the piano ruler to
add all of the notes in that key track to the selection. You can also produce evenly spaced repeated
time selections by pressing Shift , and then clicking and dragging left or right in the MIDI Note
Editor.

10.5.4 Moving Notes

Notes in the MIDI Note Editor can be moved both horizontally (changing their position in time) and
vertically (changing their transposition). They can be moved either by clicking and dragging, or with
the arrow keys on your computer keyboard. Notes will react to grid snapping unless the grid is off. To
nudge notes without snapping to the grid, hold Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) and press the left or right
arrow keys.

When notes are selected, you can use the Edit menu to perform editing actions on the notes, such as
Copy and Paste. Notes in the clipboard will be pasted starting at the location of the insert marker. You
can also use the Ctrl (Win) / Option (Mac) modifier to click and drag copies of notes to a new
location. If you click and drag to move notes but then decide that you would like to copy them
instead, you can press Ctrl (Win) / Option (Mac) even after you start dragging.

When editing or drawing, you may sometimes place a new note on top of one that already exists. If
the new note overlaps with the beginning of the original note, the original note will be overwritten. If
the new note overlaps with the end of the original, the original note will be shortened.

10.5.5 Changing Note Length

You can click on a note’s left or right edge and drag it to adjust the note’s length. As with note
positions, note lengths can be adjusted freely up to the previous or next grid line but will be quantized
when dragging further unless the Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier is held down.

You can also change note length using the computer keyboard. Shift plus the left or right arrow
keys extends or shortens the duration of selected notes, according to the grid settings. To extend or
retract notes without snapping to the grid, also hold Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac).

Changing Note Length.

You can extend the duration of all selected notes so that their start and end times match the current
time or note selection using the Fit to Time Range option or the Ctrl
Option

J (Mac) keyboard shortcut. The option is available as a command in the Edit menu or the
MIDI Note Editor’s context menu. You can also select the option from the Duration drop-down menu
in the Clip View’s Pitch and Time Utilities panel and apply it with the Set Length button.

J (Win) / Cmd

Alt

Fitting Notes into Time Range.

10.5.6 MIDI Note Stretch

MIDI Note Stretch Markers.

When multiple notes or a range of time are selected, Note Stretch markers will appear below the
scrub area, allowing notes to be scaled proportionally in time. The markers are a pair of downward-
pointing indicators that snap to the beginning and end of the selection.

By clicking and dragging one of the markers horizontally, the selected notes will be stretched in
proportion to their original lengths. Note Stretch markers can be freely moved until reaching the
previous or next grid or offset point, after which they will snap to the MIDI Note Editor’s grid lines
unless the grid is not shown or the Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier is held while dragging.

When the mouse is between the Note Stretch markers, a “pseudo” stretch marker will appear.
Dragging this stretches or compresses the material between the fixed markers without affecting the
material outside of them. The pseudo stretch marker has the same grid snapping behavior as fixed
markers.

One Note Stretch marker can be dragged beyond the boundary of another, which will mirror the
order of the stretched notes in relation to their initial sequence.

Adjusting the Note Stretch markers will also adjust the timing of any of the clip’s linked clip envelopes.
Unlinked clip envelopes are not affected.

It is also possible to stretch notes using dedicated Stretch controls in the Clip View’s Pitch and Time
Utilities panel.

10.5.7 Deactivating Notes

To deactivate, or mute, a note (or notes), select it and press 0 , or use the Deactivate Note(s)
command in the Edit menu or in the piano ruler’s or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu. When a
note is deactivated it is grayed out and will not be played. Press 0 again to reactivate notes.

10.5.8 Note Operations

There are several additional ways in which you can edit notes in the MIDI Note Editor: dividing notes
into two or more parts with the Split and Chop operations respectively, and combining separate notes
of the same pitch using the Join operation.

10.5.8.1 Split

The Split operation divides notes into two parts. To use Split, hold the E key, then draw a line across
notes to split them. You can also hold E and click and drag horizontally inside a note to
simultaneously split and adjust the split position.

Add the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier to snap the split position to the current grid.

Splitting Notes with a Mouse.

When no notes are selected you can also use the Ctrl
shortcut to split all notes intersecting with the insert marker or spanning beyond the time selection. You
can also use the Split Note(s) command from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu.
Note that the command is only available when at least one note intersects with the insert marker or
spans beyond the time selection.

E (Mac) keyboard

E (Win) / Cmd

10.5.8.2 Chop

The Chop operation can be used to divide notes into several parts based on the grid settings.

Chopping Notes.

There are different ways of chopping notes depending on whether you use a computer keyboard or a
mouse.

Chop notes using the keyboard: - Select notes and press the Ctrl
E (Mac) key
combination to chop the selected notes into parts based on the current grid settings. You can also use
the Chop Note(s) on Grid command from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu. -
Select notes, press the Chop shortcut, then continue holding the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier
and use the up and down arrow keys to increase or decrease the number of parts into which the notes
are chopped. Add the Shift modifier to increase or decrease the number of parts by a power of
two.

E (Win) / Cmd

Chop notes using the mouse: - Select notes, then press the E
key combination, hover over one of the selected notes and drag up or down to increase or decrease
the number of parts into which the notes are chopped. Add the Shift modifier to increase or
decrease the number of parts by a power of two.

Ctrl (Win) / E

Option (Mac)

Increasing the Number of Parts Into Which Notes Are Chopped.

10.5.8.3 Join

The Join operation creates one note from all selected notes of the same pitch, preserving MPE contents
and joining the MPE envelopes along with the MIDI notes.

To join notes, select notes in the same key track, then press the Ctrl
keyboard shortcut or use the Join Notes command from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s
context menu.

J (Win) / Cmd

J (Mac)

The Join Notes Context Menu Command.

10.5.9 Pitch and Time Utilities

The Pitch and Time Utilities panel contains tools that offer a number of ways to quickly manipulate the
notes within a MIDI clip. These utilities affect the selected notes or a time range. If nothing is selected,
any changes applied with button controls will affect the whole clip.

10.5.9.1 Transpose

The Transpose slider displays the note pitch range. It can also be used to transpose a note or notes in
a time selection. Drag up or down in the slider or type a number into the slider to transpose notes by a
chosen number semitones or scale degrees (if a clip scale is active).

The Transpose Slider.

You can also transpose the selected notes directly in the MIDI Note Editor with the up and down
arrow keys. To transpose by octaves, hold down Shift while pressing the up or down arrow keys.

10.5.9.2 Fit to Scale

The Fit to Scale button adjusts pitches of the notes within the clip or the selection so that they fall within
the scale set for the clip. Notes are adjusted to the closest scale degree of a given scale or, in case of
an equal distance, to the lower scale degree. If a scale is not active for the clip, the button will be
greyed out.

The Fit to Scale Button.

10.5.9.3 Invert

Invert is a pitch operation where the position of the highest note is swapped with the position of the
lowest note, with other notes being flipped vertically, resulting in the note selection being turned
“upside-down”.

The Invert Button.

If a scale is active in the clip, Invert will calculate the inverse position of notes relative to the current
scale degrees.

Note: Invert is not to be confused with the Invert Selection option described in the Selecting Notes
and Timespan section earlier in this chapter: the former is a pitch change performed on a note
selection, whereas the latter changes what is selected.

10.5.9.4 Intervals

You can use the Interval Size slider and the Add Interval button to set the number of semitones or
scale degrees (if a clip scale is active) by which the pitches of new notes will be shifted in relation to
the pitches of the original note selection. This is useful for quickly creating chords.

If there is an existing note selection, adjusting the value in the Interval Size slider will result in new
notes being immediately added and selected in the MIDI Note Editor. When no notes are selected,
the slider merely sets the interval size which then needs to be applied with the Add Interval button. If
the button is then used with no note selection, new notes will be added at the specified interval for all
of the existing notes in the clip.

The Interval Size Slider and the Add Interval Button.

10.5.9.5 Stretch

It is possible to quickly adjust the note length of selected notes with the three note stretching options in
the Pitch and Time Utilities panel: the Stretch Factor control and the Double (×2) and Halve (/2)
buttons.

Stretch sets the factor by which the note length is changed. The ×2 and /2 buttons to the right of the
Stretch control respectively extend or shorten the note duration, time selection, or loop region by a
factor of 2.

Note Stretching Options.

Note that the Stretch control has no effect on the length of the loop region.

10.5.9.6 Note Duration

You can set the same note duration, or length, for all selected notes. It is possible to fit note lengths
within time range, use the current grid setting as the basis for note duration, or select a specific length
from the options available in the Duration drop-down menu.

Once you select the desired note length, apply it to the selected notes with the Set Length button. If no
notes are selected, pressing the button will apply the specified note length to all notes in the clip.

Note Duration Options.

10.5.9.7 Humanize

Humanize adds a variation to note starts times, removing any potential mechanical feel from the
composition. The variation percentage is set using the Humanize Amount slider, up to a quarter of a
grid division before or after the original note position, and can be applied with the Humanize button.

Humanize Options.

10.5.9.8 Reverse

The Reverse button rearranges the selection so that the position of the last note is swapped with the
position of the first note and the positions of the notes in between are flipped horizontally. When no
notes are selected, the entire clip is reversed.

The Reverse Button.

10.5.9.9 Legato

Pressing the Legato button results in the duration of each selected note being extended (or shortened),
so that it reaches the start of the next note. The last note gets extended to the end of the loop.

The Legato Button.

You can also use the Span MIDI Tool to apply legato note lengths.

10.5.10 MIDI Tools

The MIDI Tools contained in the Transform and Generate panels offer additional ways of editing MIDI
notes. Existing notes can be altered through, amongst others, articulation, interpolation, or
ornamentation, or completely new note patterns can be instantly generated according to specified
parameters.

You can find out more about all the available options for transforming and generating notes in a
dedicated MIDI Tools chapter.

10.5.11 Quantizing Notes

There are four ways of quantizing MIDI notes in Live:

1.
2.
3.

Quantizing notes as you record them.
Quantizing notes by moving them so that they snap to the visible grid lines.
Quantizing notes by using the Quantize MIDI Tool in Clip View’s Transform panel for more
granular control of note quantization. The transformation allows you to set a specific value at
which notes will be quantized (including the possibility of note starts and ends being

quantized). You can also quantize notes without giving them that “quantized” feel using the
Amount control, which will move notes only by a percentage of the set quantization value.

The Quantize MIDI Tool.

4.

Quantizing by selecting a note or notes and choosing the Quantize command from the Edit
menu, or using the Ctrl
U (Mac) keyboard shortcut. This option will use
the quantization settings as specified in the Quantize MIDI Tool described above. These settings
can also be opened using the Ctrl
U (Mac) keyboard
shortcut.

U (Win) / Cmd

U (Win) / Cmd

Shift

Shift

10.5.12 Editing Velocities

Note velocity data is recorded when a MIDI note is played as a result of pressing a key or a pad on a
controller and can be understood as a note’s loudness. In the MIDI Note Editor, note velocity is
visually indicated by the amount of saturation in the note’s color — less saturated notes play softly,
while more saturated notes play louder. You can use the Velocity Editor to adjust the velocity values
for the notes in a clip.

To change velocity for a MIDI note, click and drag on the associated marker in the Velocity Editor.
Velocity values will be shown numerically in the Velocity Editor’s lane header. To help you locate the
velocity marker belonging to a MIDI note that may be stacked vertically with others, Live highlights the
velocity marker for whichever note your mouse is hovering over.

Note Velocity Marker.

You can select multiple velocity markers to change by clicking with the Shift modifier held down.
To set a group of notes so that they all have the same velocity, select their markers in the Velocity
Editor, drag them up or down to either maximum or minimum velocity, and then adjust velocity to the
desired value.

To change the velocity of notes without opening the Velocity Editor, click any selected note and drag
vertically while pressing the Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier.

Velocity values can also be entered manually by first selecting the velocity marker, then typing the
numerical value on the computer keyboard and hitting the Enter key.

You can use the up or down arrow keys with Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) held down to increment the
values of selected velocity markers by +/-10. Holding the Shift key at the same time allows fine-
tuning the values of selected velocity markers.

Apart from manually adjusting velocity values for notes, you can also set a velocity range or
randomize the note velocity values using Velocity Controls available below the Editor lanes when the
Velocity Editor is selected.

Velocity Controls.

Velocity values for selected notes (or notes with selected markers) can be randomized by clicking on
the Randomize button. If no notes or markers are selected, values for all notes will be randomized.

The Randomize Button.

The Randomization Amount slider to the right of the Randomize button allows specifying a range of
randomized velocity values. Velocities will be randomly increased or decreased by a value between
zero and the number shown in the slider. The slider’s value can also be typed as a number with the
keyboard, and randomization is then triggered when the new value is validated using the Enter
key.

The Randomization Amount Slider.

The Ramp sliders can be used to create a velocity ramp for multiple notes. The Ramp Start Value slider
is used to set the velocity value for the first note in the selection, whereas the Ramp End Value slider
sets the value for the last note. The other notes in the selection are distributed evenly within the range
set by the Ramp sliders.

The Ramp Sliders.

The Velocity Deviation slider can be used to set a range for each note’s velocity. Velocity values are
then chosen randomly from within the specified range each time a note is played. Positive and
negative values can be set, which increase or decrease velocity, respectively. For example, if a
velocity range of +20 is set for a selected note with a velocity value of 60, a random value between
60 and 80 will be chosen each time the note is played.

The Velocity Deviation Slider.

The velocity range is indicated by the shaded area that appears above or below the velocity markers
and with a dot inside of the velocity markers. Double-clicking the velocity marker which has a velocity
range set will reset the range to 0.

Velocity Markers with Deviation Set.

If multiple notes are selected, the range in the Velocity Deviation slider will be adjusted accordingly to
the existing velocity values. For example, when increasing the velocity range, if one note’s velocity
value is set to 50 and another note’s to 25, the velocity range of the first note can be +77 at most,
whereas the range of the second note can be +102. Both values will then be displayed in the slider to
reflect this.

The Velocity Deviation Slider with Varied Ranges of Deviation.

You can also set the velocity range by holding Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) and dragging up or
down from a velocity marker. This applies both to individual notes and a note selection.

10.5.12.1 Drawing Velocities

Draw Mode allows drawing inside the Velocity Editor as a way of setting velocity values instead of
adjusting them manually. You can enable Draw Mode by toggling the Control Bar’s Draw Mode
button or by pressing the B key.

Drawing velocity affects notes located within a given grid division will be affected. If the notes are
selected, only those notes will be affected, even if there are other notes within the grid division. If no
notes are selected, all notes will be affected. The exact notes that will be affected are highlighted in
blue when hovering over the Velocity Editor.

To draw markers individually (as you would want to with a crescendo, for instance) deactivate grid
snapping with the Ctrl
(Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier. To draw markers along a straight line hold down the Alt (Win) /
Option (Mac) and drag the cursor. Add Shift to make the line horizontal.

4 (Mac) shortcut, or simply hold down the Alt

4 (Win) / Cmd

Drawing Identical Velocities (Left) and a Crescendo (Right).

To draw a velocity ramp with notes that are all in the same key track, click a key in the piano ruler to
select all notes within the desired key track and draw the ramp into the Velocity Editor.

10.5.12.2 Note Off Velocity

While the Velocity Editor allows you to adjust Note On velocities, you can also open the Release
Velocity Editor to show Note Off velocities.

Select the Release Velocity Editor via the Lane Selector.

Note Off (or “release”) velocity is a somewhat esoteric parameter. If you think of velocity as the
speed of pressing a key, you can look at release velocity as the speed at which the pressed-down key

is released. Release velocity is only supported by certain devices. Live’s Sampler instrument, for
example, provides Note Off velocity as a controller for a variety of parameters.

10.5.13 Editing Probabilities

Note probability determines the likelihood of a MIDI note being triggered during clip playback. You
can set probability for notes using the Chance Editor.

The Chance Editor.

Note that the Chance Editor lane is hidden by default and can be shown by clicking on the triangular
Lane Selector drop-down menu to the right of the Show/Hide All Expression Editors toggle on the left
of the Clip Content Toolbar.

To change a MIDI note’s probability value between 0-100%, click and drag on the note’s probability
marker in the Chance Editor. To help you locate the probability marker belonging to a MIDI note that
may be stacked vertically with others, Live highlights the probability marker for whichever note your
mouse is hovering over. As you drag the marker, the current probability value will be displayed in the
Chance Editor’s lane as well as the Status Bar. If multiple notes with different probability values are
selected, a range of probability values will be shown.

Note probability values can also be entered manually with a computer keyboard by first selecting a
probability marker, then typing the numerical value on the keyboard and pressing the Enter key.
Using the up or down arrow keys on the keyboard changes the values of selected probability markers
by +/-10%. Holding the Shift key while using the arrow keys allows fine-tuning the values of the
selected probability markers.

A small triangle is displayed in the upper-left corner of notes with probability values less than 100%.
The triangle is only visible if the key track height is expanded enough; otherwise, it will be hidden. To
increase the key track height, click and drag right in the note ruler and the MIDI Note Editor will zoom
in.

It is possible to randomize note probability values within a specified range, relative to the initial note
probability value. This range is set using the Randomization Amount slider in Clip Content Toolbar and
can help in creating variations on each loop for added interest or in humanizing the piece.

The Randomize Amount Slider.

Note probability will be randomly changed from the original value, with the new value falling on
either side of the initial probability, within the range set in the Randomization Amount slider. For
example, if the original probability value was 50% and the Randomization Amount was set to 25%,
the randomized probability values will range from 25-75%. When notes are selected, adjusting the
percentage in the slider will immediately randomize probability values for those notes. You can also
type in a value to set the randomization range using the keyboard, and apply the new range using the
Enter key. If no notes are selected, changing the value in the slider will have no effect until the
Enter key is pressed or the Randomize button is used, at which point the randomization will be
applied to all note probabilities.

The Randomize Button.

10.5.13.1 Probability Groups

In addition to setting a probability value for individual notes, you can also assign a single probability
value to a group of notes, so that either all notes in the group play according to the assigned value or
just one note out of the group plays at a time. These two probability group types are available:

Play All — all notes are played with the probability value set with a probability marker. Play One —
only one note in the group is played at a time, according to the set probability. The note which plays is
selected at random.

To create a note probability group, select the notes you would like to be a part of the group and press
either the Play All or Play One button in the Clip Content Toolbar, depending on the type of
probability group you wish to create.

Play All and Play One Buttons.

Once grouped, a single probability marker will be displayed for the notes in the Chance Editor: the
marker will have a diamond handle for the Play All group type or a triangle handle for the Play One
type. Right-clicking on a group probability marker allows you to change the probability group type.
You can also change the group type using the Play All or Play One buttons in the Clip Content
Toolbar.

Apart from the dedicated buttons, you can create note probability groups in a few other ways: - Use
the context menu options Group Notes (Play All) or Group Notes (Play One) in the MIDI Note Editor.
- Use the Edit menu command Group Notes (Play All) or Group Notes (Play One). - Use the
keyboard shortcut Ctrl
type as the group last created through either the dedicated buttons or the context menu.

G (Mac). The shortcut will create a group of the same

G (Win) / Cmd

Hovering over a note that belongs to a group highlights all the notes within the group. When selected
notes belong to a probability group, the group’s type will be displayed in the Status Bar. If all notes
belong to the same group, the type is listed explicitly, otherwise it is marked with an asterisk.

The small triangle displayed in the upper-left corner of notes with probability values less than 100% is
always displayed when a note belongs to a probability group, even if the probability of the group is
set to 100%.

To remove a note from a probability group, select it, then use the Ungroup button in the Clip Content
Toolbar. Alternatively, adding a note to a different group will automatically remove it from its original
group. In order to remove a probability group altogether, select all the notes in the group, then press
Ungroup.

The Ungroup Button.

You can also use the Edit menu command Ungroup Notes, the shortcut Ctrl
Cmd

G (Mac), or right-click on a grouped note marker and select the Ungroup Notes

Shift

G (Win) /

Shift

option. After notes are ungrouped, individual probability markers will be displayed for each note in
the Chance Editor once again.
