---
id: 10.5.8.1
title: "Split"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.5.8.1 Split

The Split operation divides notes into two parts. To use Split, hold the E key, then draw a line across
notes to split them. You can also hold E and click and drag horizontally inside a note to
simultaneously split and adjust the split position.

Add the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier to snap the split position to the current grid.

Splitting Notes with a Mouse.

When no notes are selected you can also use the Ctrl
shortcut to split all notes intersecting with the insert marker or spanning beyond the time selection. You
can also use the Split Note(s) command from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu.
Note that the command is only available when at least one note intersects with the insert marker or
spans beyond the time selection.

E (Mac) keyboard

E (Win) / Cmd

10.5.8.2 Chop

The Chop operation can be used to divide notes into several parts based on the grid settings.

Chopping Notes.

There are different ways of chopping notes depending on whether you use a computer keyboard or a
mouse.

Chop notes using the keyboard: - Select notes and press the Ctrl
E (Mac) key
combination to chop the selected notes into parts based on the current grid settings. You can also use
the Chop Note(s) on Grid command from the Edit menu or the MIDI Note Editor’s context menu. -
Select notes, press the Chop shortcut, then continue holding the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier
and use the up and down arrow keys to increase or decrease the number of parts into which the notes
are chopped. Add the Shift modifier to increase or decrease the number of parts by a power of
two.

E (Win) / Cmd

Chop notes using the mouse: - Select notes, then press the E
key combination, hover over one of the selected notes and drag up or down to increase or decrease
the number of parts into which the notes are chopped. Add the Shift modifier to increase or
decrease the number of parts by a power of two.

Ctrl (Win) / E

Option (Mac)

Increasing the Number of Parts Into Which Notes Are Chopped.
