---
id: 10.5.13.1
title: "Probability Groups"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.5.13.1 Probability Groups

In addition to setting a probability value for individual notes, you can also assign a single probability
value to a group of notes, so that either all notes in the group play according to the assigned value or
just one note out of the group plays at a time. These two probability group types are available:

Play All — all notes are played with the probability value set with a probability marker. Play One —
only one note in the group is played at a time, according to the set probability. The note which plays is
selected at random.

To create a note probability group, select the notes you would like to be a part of the group and press
either the Play All or Play One button in the Clip Content Toolbar, depending on the type of
probability group you wish to create.

Play All and Play One Buttons.

Once grouped, a single probability marker will be displayed for the notes in the Chance Editor: the
marker will have a diamond handle for the Play All group type or a triangle handle for the Play One
type. Right-clicking on a group probability marker allows you to change the probability group type.
You can also change the group type using the Play All or Play One buttons in the Clip Content
Toolbar.

Apart from the dedicated buttons, you can create note probability groups in a few other ways: - Use
the context menu options Group Notes (Play All) or Group Notes (Play One) in the MIDI Note Editor.
- Use the Edit menu command Group Notes (Play All) or Group Notes (Play One). - Use the
keyboard shortcut Ctrl
type as the group last created through either the dedicated buttons or the context menu.

G (Mac). The shortcut will create a group of the same

G (Win) / Cmd

Hovering over a note that belongs to a group highlights all the notes within the group. When selected
notes belong to a probability group, the group’s type will be displayed in the Status Bar. If all notes
belong to the same group, the type is listed explicitly, otherwise it is marked with an asterisk.

The small triangle displayed in the upper-left corner of notes with probability values less than 100% is
always displayed when a note belongs to a probability group, even if the probability of the group is
set to 100%.

To remove a note from a probability group, select it, then use the Ungroup button in the Clip Content
Toolbar. Alternatively, adding a note to a different group will automatically remove it from its original
group. In order to remove a probability group altogether, select all the notes in the group, then press
Ungroup.

The Ungroup Button.

You can also use the Edit menu command Ungroup Notes, the shortcut Ctrl
Cmd

G (Mac), or right-click on a grouped note marker and select the Ungroup Notes

Shift

G (Win) /

Shift

option. After notes are ungrouped, individual probability markers will be displayed for each note in
the Chance Editor once again.
