---
id: 6.13
title: "Consolidating Clips"
chapter: 6
---
# 6.13 Consolidating Clips

The Consolidate command combines selected material from several adjacent clips into one new clip.
The command can be applied to clips per track or to adjacent clips across multiple tracks in the
Arrangement. Consolidating clips is a good way to join material from several clips into a new loop.

For example, if you have a set of clips that sound good in Arrangement Loop mode that you want to
combine into a loop, you can select your desired clips and then use the Consolidate command in the
Edit menu or main lane context menu, or use the shortcut Ctrl

J (Win) / Cmd

J (Mac).

The Result of Consolidating Clips.

The consolidated clip can be now treated like any other clip; you can for instance, move the clip to a
new position in the Arrangement, or drag MIDI clip edges to create more repetitions.

When consolidating audio clips, a new sample is created for every track in the selection. These
samples are essentially recordings of the time-warping engine’s audio output, prior to processing in
the track’s effects chain and mixer. Hence, the samples incorporate the effects of in-clip attenuation,
time-warping and pitch shifting, and of the respective clip envelopes, however, they do not
incorporate the effects. If you want to create a new sample from the post-effects signal, use the Export
Audio/Video command to export a specific selection of clips into one audio file.

Consolidated samples can be found in the current Set’s Project folder, under Samples/Processed/
Consolidate. If the Set has not yet been saved, consolidated samples are stored at the location
specified by the Temporary Folder.

6.14 Linked-Track Editing

Linked-track editing makes it possible to use the comping workflow and other phase-locked editing
operations on multiple tracks at once.

6.14.1 Linking and Unlinking Tracks

Selected tracks can be linked by using the Link Tracks command in the track header’s context menu.

The Link Tracks Command.

It is also possible to link tracks in a Group Track by opening the Group Track header’s context menu
and using the Link Tracks command.

Linked tracks display a linked-track indicator button in the track headers.

A Track’s Linked-Track Indicator Button.

Note that you can create multiple instances of linked tracks in a Set, however each track can only
belong to one of these instances.

Hovering over a track’s linked-track indicator highlights the tracks that are linked together. This can be
especially useful for identifying multiple instances of linked tracks. Clicking on a track’s linked-track
indicator selects all tracks that are linked together.

You can add tracks to an existing instance of linked tracks by first selecting the tracks you want to add,
then holding Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) and using the Link Tracks command in one of the existing
linked track header’s context menu.

Any subset of linked tracks, or a mix of linked and unlinked tracks, can be linked together by selecting
their track headers and clicking the Link Tracks context menu command.

To remove tracks from an instance of linked tracks, select the tracks you want to unlink and use the
Unlink Track(s) option in the track or Group Track header’s context menu.

6.14.2 Editing Linked Tracks

Once you have created an instance of linked tracks, the following operations can be applied to all
tracks simultaneously:

•
•
•
•

Moving and resizing clips.
Selecting clips and time.
Using the “… Time” commands.
Splitting and consolidating clips.

•

•
•

Creating and editing audio clip fades. Only clip fades that start at the same time position can
be adjusted simultaneously.
Arming and disarming tracks.
Renaming, inserting, and deleting take lanes, as well as enabling and disabling Audition Mode
on take lanes. This also applies when take lanes are hidden in some linked tracks.
