---
id: 11.2.6
title: "Ornament"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.2.6 Ornament

The Ornament Transformation contains Flam and Grace Notes options which allow for ornamental
notes to be added to the beginning of selected notes. Reapplying the Transformation to the same
selection results in additional flam or grace notes being inserted.

The Ornament MIDI Tool.

Select which type of ornamental notes to add by switching on either the Flam or Grace Notes toggle.

The Flam and Grace Notes Toggles.

When using Flam, a single note is added to the beginning of each selected note.

The Flam Position parameter controls the placement of the flam note: at positive values, the flam note
will replace the beginning of the original note, while at negative values, the flam note is prepended to
the start of the selected note. The parameter’s value represents the percentage of the current grid
setting, so the length of the flam note will be determined by the grid size rather than the length of the
original note. This means that at 100% / -100% the flam note’s length will be equal to one grid
division, placed respectively at the start of the original note or before it, and will become
proportionally shorter as Flam Position’s value approaches 0%.

The Flam Velocity parameter sets the velocity of the flam notes relative to the velocity of the original
notes.

Notes Before and After Adding Flam.

When using Grace Notes, multiple notes of equal length are added to the beginning of each original
note.

The Grace Notes Pitch buttons allow you to determine the pitch of the added grace notes relative to
the original note. When High is selected, every other grace note is placed one semitone (or scale
degree, if a scale is active) higher than the original notes, while when Low is selected, the pitch of
every other grace note is one semitone or scale degree lower than the existing notes. If Same is
selected, the grace notes are added at the same pitch as the original notes.

The Grace Notes Position parameter controls whether the added grace notes replace the beginning of
the selected notes (when the parameter is set to positive values) or are prepended to the original notes
(at negative values). The value represents the percentage of the current grid size: at 100% / -100%
the inserted graces notes will fill one grid division, placed respectively at the start of the original note
or before it.

The Grace Notes Velocity parameter determines the velocity of grace notes relative to the velocity of
the original notes.

The Grace Notes Chance control determines the probability that each grace note will be played
relative to the original note’s Chance values.

The Grace Notes Amount parameter allows you to specify the number of grace notes to be applied to
each selected note. The individual grace notes are always equivalent in size.

Note Selection Before and After Adding Grace Notes.
