---
id: 11.2
title: "Transformation Tools"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.2 Transformation Tools

Below you will find a list of all MIDI Transformations included in Live.

11.2.1 Arpeggiate

The Arpeggiate Transformation splits up the note selection into arpeggiated notes based on the
chosen pattern settings. It uses the core functionalities found in the Arpeggiator MIDI effect.

The Arpeggiate MIDI Tool.

The Style drop-down menu allows you to select an arpeggiated sequence which will be applied to
the selected notes. The Arpeggiate Transformation offers the same 18 style patterns known from
Arpeggiator.

The Distance control determines the transposition of steps in the pattern using scale degrees or
semitones, depending on whether a scale is set for the clip.

The Steps slider allows you to select the number of transposed steps in the pattern.

The Rate and Gate controls determine how notes are distributed on a timeline: the former sets the rate
of the pattern (which also affects note length), while the latter affects note duration. When Gate is set
to values below 100%, notes will be shortened, whereas at values above 100% notes will be
lengthened.

Notes Before and After Applying the Arpeggiate Transformation.

11.2.2 Chop

The Chop Transformation divides selected MIDI notes into a maximum of 64 parts. It can also be used
to design note division patterns; for example, you can create a pattern where some notes are
extended relatively to others, or where a random variation is added to note start or end times.

The Chop MIDI Tool.

You can create a note chopping pattern by setting the number of parts for the chopped note(s) with
the Parts control, from 2 to 64 parts. The Gaps control adds spaces to the pattern, with the exact
minimum and maximum number of gaps depending on the number of parts the pattern contains.
When set to positive values, the control represents the number of notes after which a gap will be
added. When set to negative values, the control represents the number of gaps that will be added
after each note. For example, when set to 2, a gap replaces a note in the sequence after two
successive notes. When set to -2, two gaps are added after each note. Note that a pattern can consist
of a maximum of 16 parts. If the Parts control is set to a higher value, the pattern will repeat.

The Pattern toggles visualize the pattern designed with the Parts and Gaps controls and let you
manually add and remove gaps within the pattern, which can be helpful in creating rhythmic
variations. When the number of gaps is changed with the Pattern toggles, the Gaps control shows a
dash. If the control is adjusted, the manually added gaps in the pattern are replaced with those set
through the Gaps control.

The Emphasis toggles let you select which notes or gaps are emphasized in the pattern. Emphasized
pattern elements are affected by the Stretch Chunk(s) value, which stretches the relative length of notes
or gaps from 2 to 8 times longer. When notes or gaps are emphasized, their corresponding Pattern
toggles are grayed out.

You can use the Variation slider to add random variation to the note start and end times.

Notes Before and After Applying the Chop Transformation.

11.2.3 Connect

The Connect Transformation generates new notes that fill the gaps between existing notes. The
placement of the interpolated notes is randomized, but some particulars of the pattern can be
determined using Connect’s parameters.

The Connect MIDI Tool.

The Spread control sets the maximum random pitch shift of the connecting notes based on the original
note pitches, in scale degrees or semitones.

Density allows you to specify the percentage of the time interval between original notes to be filled
with interpolated notes. At 100%, all the gaps between existing notes will be filled.

Use the Rate control to set the length of the interpolated notes and the Tie control to determine the
probability that the length of a generated note will be extended to the next original note.

Notes Before and After Applying the Connect Transformation.

11.2.4 Glissando

The Glissando Transformation is an MPE MIDI Tool that connects the pitch of one note to the pitch of a
successive note along a pitch bend curve, tying the notes together. At least two notes must be selected
to create a glissando.

The Glissando MIDI Tool.

The Start control sets the starting point of the pitch bend curve, expressed as a percentage of the note
length. The Curve control changes the shape of the pitch bend curve. You can click and drag the
yellow breakpoint in Glissando’s display left or right to adjust pitch bend start, or click and drag the
line up or down to adjust the pitch bend curve shape.

Notes Before and After Applying the Glissando Transformation.

Note that you can only view the pitch bend curve in the MPE Editor. When the MIDI Note Editor is
open, the Glissando Transformation is applied, but the pitch bend curve is not visible.

When working with folded notes, you can display the pitch bend curve below the MIDI Note Editor
by activating the Pitch Bend expression lane.

Pitch Bend Curve Displayed in a Dedicated Expression Lane.

11.2.5 LFO

LFO is an MPE Transformation that uses a low-frequency oscillator to set the value of one of three
MPE parameters: pitch bend, slide, or pressure. The oscillator’s shape, rate, and global amplitude can
all be customized using the Transformation’s parameters.

The LFO MIDI Tool.

The Target chooser lets you set Pitch Bend, Slide, or Pressure as a modulation target for the LFO. The
LFO curve display shows the shape of the LFO used as a modulation source.

The Envelope Attack and Decay sliders set the attack and decay of the oscillator’s amplitude
envelope, relative to the total length of the oscillation. Note that the envelope’s attack and decay
values influence each other. This means that if, for example, Attack is set to 100%, Decay is
automatically reset to 0%.

The Shape control adjusts the shape of the oscillator based on the shape selected in the Shape Type
chooser. You can choose from the following four types: Sine, Square, Triangle, or Random. When
Random is selected, the Reseed button can be used to generate new random shapes for the LFO.

The Reseed Button.

The Rate control sets the period of the oscillator in musical time, from 1 to 1/128. For example, setting
the rate to 1 equates to 4 beats. The Time Shift slider below Rate shifts the LFO in time. Positive values
delay the start of the oscillation and negative values adjust its phase.

The Amount control sets the oscillator’s amplitude. When Pitch Bend is selected as the modulation
target, Amount can be set to any value within double the clip’s current pitch bend range. For example,
if the range is set to ±60 st, Amount can be set from -120 st to 120 st. When Slide or Pressure are
selected, Amount can be set from -127 to 127. You can set the base value for the amplitude using the
Amplitude Base slider below the Amount control. When Pitch Bend is selected as a modulation target,
Amplitude Base can be set to any value within the clip’s current pitch bend range. For example, if the
range is set to ±60 st, Amplitude Base can be set from -60 st to 60 st. When Slide or Pressure are
selected, Amplitude Base can be set from -127 to 127.

Notes Before and After Applying the LFO Transformation.

The MPE curve for the Pitch Bend modulation target is displayed in the MIDI Note Editor. You can also
choose to display it below the MIDI Note Editor by activating the Pitch Bend expression lane, which
can be helpful when working with folded notes. Modulation curves for Slide and Pressure are
displayed in their respective expression lanes.

Note that the modulation applied by the LFO Transformation is only displayed in the MPE Editor.
When the MIDI Note Editor is open, the Transformation is applied, but the expression curves are not
visible.

11.2.6 Ornament

The Ornament Transformation contains Flam and Grace Notes options which allow for ornamental
notes to be added to the beginning of selected notes. Reapplying the Transformation to the same
selection results in additional flam or grace notes being inserted.

The Ornament MIDI Tool.

Select which type of ornamental notes to add by switching on either the Flam or Grace Notes toggle.

The Flam and Grace Notes Toggles.

When using Flam, a single note is added to the beginning of each selected note.

The Flam Position parameter controls the placement of the flam note: at positive values, the flam note
will replace the beginning of the original note, while at negative values, the flam note is prepended to
the start of the selected note. The parameter’s value represents the percentage of the current grid
setting, so the length of the flam note will be determined by the grid size rather than the length of the
original note. This means that at 100% / -100% the flam note’s length will be equal to one grid
division, placed respectively at the start of the original note or before it, and will become
proportionally shorter as Flam Position’s value approaches 0%.

The Flam Velocity parameter sets the velocity of the flam notes relative to the velocity of the original
notes.

Notes Before and After Adding Flam.

When using Grace Notes, multiple notes of equal length are added to the beginning of each original
note.

The Grace Notes Pitch buttons allow you to determine the pitch of the added grace notes relative to
the original note. When High is selected, every other grace note is placed one semitone (or scale
degree, if a scale is active) higher than the original notes, while when Low is selected, the pitch of
every other grace note is one semitone or scale degree lower than the existing notes. If Same is
selected, the grace notes are added at the same pitch as the original notes.

The Grace Notes Position parameter controls whether the added grace notes replace the beginning of
the selected notes (when the parameter is set to positive values) or are prepended to the original notes
(at negative values). The value represents the percentage of the current grid size: at 100% / -100%
the inserted graces notes will fill one grid division, placed respectively at the start of the original note
or before it.

The Grace Notes Velocity parameter determines the velocity of grace notes relative to the velocity of
the original notes.

The Grace Notes Chance control determines the probability that each grace note will be played
relative to the original note’s Chance values.

The Grace Notes Amount parameter allows you to specify the number of grace notes to be applied to
each selected note. The individual grace notes are always equivalent in size.

Note Selection Before and After Adding Grace Notes.

11.2.7 Quantize

The Quantize MIDI Tool adjusts the timing of selected notes by moving or stretching them according to
the specified quantization settings. Note that an equivalent Quantize tool exists for audio clips.

The Quantize Transformation.

You can transform notes according to the current grid size or set a specific meter value for
quantization (including triplets). It’s possible to quantize note start or end time, or both note start and
end time simultaneously. Quantizing the note end will stretch the note so that it ends at the chosen
meter subdivision. You can also quantize notes without giving them that “quantized” sound using the
Amount control, which will move notes only by a percentage of the set quantization value.

Notes Before and After Applying Quantization.

Aside from navigating to the Transformation using Clip View’s tabs/panels, you can also open the
Quantize MIDI Tool to change its parameters by using the Quantize Settings… command in the Edit
menu, or use the Ctrl
to the selected notes without opening the Transform tab/panel.

U (Mac) shortcut to apply quantization

U (Win) / Cmd

Shift

Shift

11.2.8 Recombine

The Recombine MIDI Tool rearranges the position, pitch, duration, or velocity for a selection of notes,
so that a parameter value set for one note in the selection is applied to a different note.

The Recombine Transformation.

You can use the Dimension chooser to select one of four note parameters for Recombine to permute:
Position, Pitch, Duration, or Velocity.

The Dimension Chooser.

There are three ways of rearranging note parameters using Recombine: 1. Shuffle, where note
parameters are permuted randomly. 2. Mirror, where note parameters are permuted to be in reverse
order to the note selection. 3. Rotate, where note parameters are permuted in a circular way.

The Shuffle and Mirror permutation types can be activated using their respective toggles, whereas for
Rotate to take effect, you need to set the number of Rotation Steps to a value other than 0.

Rotation Steps can be set by clicking and dragging your mouse across the columns in Recombine’s
display or by using the Rotate Step Down/Up buttons below the display. The number of available
steps is always one step fewer than the number of selected notes. Positive numbers rotate parameter
values clockwise, and negative numbers rotate parameter values counter-clockwise.

When Position is selected in the Dimension chooser, you can switch on the Rotate on Grid toggle.
When on, Recombine uses the number of grid cells in the selection as a basis for the number of
available Rotation Steps rather than the number of notes. The exact number of available Rotation
Steps depends on the current grid settings.

Each permutation type can be used individually or in conjunction with others. Permutation types are
applied in the following order: Shuffle, then Mirror, then Rotate. Note that when Shuffle is active, a
new parameter permutation is created each time the Apply button is pressed.

Note Velocities Before and After Applying the Shuffle Transformation Mode.

11.2.9 Span

The Span MIDI Tool transforms the durations of selected notes using three articulation types: legato,
tenuto and staccato.

The Span Transformation.

It is also possible to introduce some variety to how notes are transformed with additional parameters:

•

•

Offset adjusts note end times up to a grid step. At positive values, note length is extended; at
negative values, note length is shortened.
Variation adds random variation to note lengths. At positive values, note length is shortened; at
negative values, note length is extended. If set to values other than 0%, new note length
variation will be produced whenever the Transformation is reapplied.

Legato extends the length of selected notes to the start time of the next note in the sequence. The last of
the selected notes will be extended to the end of the time selection or, if there is no time selection, to
the end of the loop.

Notes Before and After Applying Legato.

Tenuto preserves the original note length unless the Offset and Variation parameters are adjusted.

When using the Staccato articulation type, note length is determined by the distance between start
times of the selected notes. The smallest distance between start times is halved and this duration is
used as the new note length for the transformed notes. Note length can be further modified using the
Offset and Variation parameters.

11.2.10 Strum

The Strum MIDI Tool adjusts the start times of notes in a chord following a shape set by the Strum Low,
Strum High and Tension parameters.

The Strum Transformation.

The Strum Low parameter determines the offset of the successive notes, starting with the lowest note. At
positive values, the note start times are moved forward, whereas at negative values the start times are
moved back. The start time of the lowest note is offset up to one grid step at 100% / -100%. The other
notes are proportionally, matching the shape in the Strum Position display. If the Tension parameter is
set to 0.0%, notes are distributed at an equal distance between each other.

The Strum High parameter determines the offset of the original chord starting with the highest note.
When set to positive values, the note start times are moved forward, whereas at negative values the
start times are moved back. The highest note is offset up to a grid step at 100% / -100%. The other
notes are distributed proportionally to match the shape in the display. If the Tension parameter is set to
0.0%, notes are distributed at an equal distance between each other.

In order for the Transformation to have effect, the Strum Low and/or Strum High parameters must be
set to a value other than 0.0%. You can make changes to both parameters by adjusting their
respective breakpoints in the Strum Position display, or by entering a value for each using your
computer keyboard.

The Tension parameter changes the offset of note start times so that they are no longer placed at an
equal distance between each other, but instead alongside a curve, with distances between notes
being larger or smaller, depending on the settings. At positive Tension values, the distance between
the notes will be greater at the start of the note sequence and decrease exponentially. At negative
values, the distance between notes at the start of the sequence will be shorter and increase
exponentially.

Notes Before and After Applying the Strum Transformation.

11.2.11 Time Warp

Time Warp is a time-stretching MIDI Tool that transforms selected notes according to a speed curve.
This allows creating tempo variations such as accelerando or ritardando.

The Time Warp Transformation.

You can create the speed curve in the Breakpoints display. The time range of the curve is mapped to
the time selection. It is possible to enable between one and three breakpoints in the speed curve using
their respective toggles. You can either drag a breakpoint in the display or select it and use the
Breakpoint Time and Breakpoint Speed sliders to set the breakpoint’s timeline position and speed,
respectively. The sliders’ values always reflect the values of the currently selected breakpoint.

The toggles below the Breakpoints display allow you to make further adjustments to the time-warping
applied. When Quantize is on, the warped notes will be quantized according to the grid settings.
When the Preserve Time Range switch is enabled, the results of the Transformation will fit within the
same range as the original note selection. When the Include Note End switch is toggled on, the end
positions of the original notes are taken into account when applying the speed curve, which will have
an effect on the duration of the original notes.

Notes Before and After Applying Time Warp.

11.2.12 Velocity Shaper

Velocity Shaper is a Max for Live Transformation.

The Velocity Shaper MIDI Tool.

Velocity Shaper allows you to shape the velocities of selected notes using an adjustable envelope.

The envelope shape in the display will influence how the velocities of the selected notes are
transformed. Click in the display to add more breakpoints to the envelope and drag them to adjust the
envelope shape.

You can use the Minimum and Maximum Velocity parameters on the right of the display to define the
velocity range for the transformed notes.

The Loop parameter below the display sets the number of times the envelope shape will be applied to
the note selection.

The Rotate control determines the number of steps the envelope shape is offset, relative to the start of
the note selection. The size of the step is determined by the Division parameter. For example, if Rotate
is set to 1 and Division is set to “Grid”, the envelope shape will be shifted to the right by one grid step.

Notes Before and After Applying Velocity Shaper.
