---
id: 11.2.8
title: "Recombine"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.2.8 Recombine

The Recombine MIDI Tool rearranges the position, pitch, duration, or velocity for a selection of notes,
so that a parameter value set for one note in the selection is applied to a different note.

The Recombine Transformation.

You can use the Dimension chooser to select one of four note parameters for Recombine to permute:
Position, Pitch, Duration, or Velocity.

The Dimension Chooser.

There are three ways of rearranging note parameters using Recombine: 1. Shuffle, where note
parameters are permuted randomly. 2. Mirror, where note parameters are permuted to be in reverse
order to the note selection. 3. Rotate, where note parameters are permuted in a circular way.

The Shuffle and Mirror permutation types can be activated using their respective toggles, whereas for
Rotate to take effect, you need to set the number of Rotation Steps to a value other than 0.

Rotation Steps can be set by clicking and dragging your mouse across the columns in Recombine’s
display or by using the Rotate Step Down/Up buttons below the display. The number of available
steps is always one step fewer than the number of selected notes. Positive numbers rotate parameter
values clockwise, and negative numbers rotate parameter values counter-clockwise.

When Position is selected in the Dimension chooser, you can switch on the Rotate on Grid toggle.
When on, Recombine uses the number of grid cells in the selection as a basis for the number of
available Rotation Steps rather than the number of notes. The exact number of available Rotation
Steps depends on the current grid settings.

Each permutation type can be used individually or in conjunction with others. Permutation types are
applied in the following order: Shuffle, then Mirror, then Rotate. Note that when Shuffle is active, a
new parameter permutation is created each time the Apply button is pressed.

Note Velocities Before and After Applying the Shuffle Transformation Mode.
