---
id: 11.2.4
title: "Glissando"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.2.4 Glissando

The Glissando Transformation is an MPE MIDI Tool that connects the pitch of one note to the pitch of a
successive note along a pitch bend curve, tying the notes together. At least two notes must be selected
to create a glissando.

The Glissando MIDI Tool.

The Start control sets the starting point of the pitch bend curve, expressed as a percentage of the note
length. The Curve control changes the shape of the pitch bend curve. You can click and drag the
yellow breakpoint in Glissando’s display left or right to adjust pitch bend start, or click and drag the
line up or down to adjust the pitch bend curve shape.

Notes Before and After Applying the Glissando Transformation.

Note that you can only view the pitch bend curve in the MPE Editor. When the MIDI Note Editor is
open, the Glissando Transformation is applied, but the pitch bend curve is not visible.

When working with folded notes, you can display the pitch bend curve below the MIDI Note Editor
by activating the Pitch Bend expression lane.

Pitch Bend Curve Displayed in a Dedicated Expression Lane.

11.2.5 LFO

LFO is an MPE Transformation that uses a low-frequency oscillator to set the value of one of three
MPE parameters: pitch bend, slide, or pressure. The oscillator’s shape, rate, and global amplitude can
all be customized using the Transformation’s parameters.

The LFO MIDI Tool.

The Target chooser lets you set Pitch Bend, Slide, or Pressure as a modulation target for the LFO. The
LFO curve display shows the shape of the LFO used as a modulation source.

The Envelope Attack and Decay sliders set the attack and decay of the oscillator’s amplitude
envelope, relative to the total length of the oscillation. Note that the envelope’s attack and decay
values influence each other. This means that if, for example, Attack is set to 100%, Decay is
automatically reset to 0%.

The Shape control adjusts the shape of the oscillator based on the shape selected in the Shape Type
chooser. You can choose from the following four types: Sine, Square, Triangle, or Random. When
Random is selected, the Reseed button can be used to generate new random shapes for the LFO.

The Reseed Button.

The Rate control sets the period of the oscillator in musical time, from 1 to 1/128. For example, setting
the rate to 1 equates to 4 beats. The Time Shift slider below Rate shifts the LFO in time. Positive values
delay the start of the oscillation and negative values adjust its phase.

The Amount control sets the oscillator’s amplitude. When Pitch Bend is selected as the modulation
target, Amount can be set to any value within double the clip’s current pitch bend range. For example,
if the range is set to ±60 st, Amount can be set from -120 st to 120 st. When Slide or Pressure are
selected, Amount can be set from -127 to 127. You can set the base value for the amplitude using the
Amplitude Base slider below the Amount control. When Pitch Bend is selected as a modulation target,
Amplitude Base can be set to any value within the clip’s current pitch bend range. For example, if the
range is set to ±60 st, Amplitude Base can be set from -60 st to 60 st. When Slide or Pressure are
selected, Amplitude Base can be set from -127 to 127.

Notes Before and After Applying the LFO Transformation.

The MPE curve for the Pitch Bend modulation target is displayed in the MIDI Note Editor. You can also
choose to display it below the MIDI Note Editor by activating the Pitch Bend expression lane, which
can be helpful when working with folded notes. Modulation curves for Slide and Pressure are
displayed in their respective expression lanes.

Note that the modulation applied by the LFO Transformation is only displayed in the MPE Editor.
When the MIDI Note Editor is open, the Transformation is applied, but the expression curves are not
visible.
