---
id: 11.2.2
title: "Chop"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.2.2 Chop

The Chop Transformation divides selected MIDI notes into a maximum of 64 parts. It can also be used
to design note division patterns; for example, you can create a pattern where some notes are
extended relatively to others, or where a random variation is added to note start or end times.

The Chop MIDI Tool.

You can create a note chopping pattern by setting the number of parts for the chopped note(s) with
the Parts control, from 2 to 64 parts. The Gaps control adds spaces to the pattern, with the exact
minimum and maximum number of gaps depending on the number of parts the pattern contains.
When set to positive values, the control represents the number of notes after which a gap will be
added. When set to negative values, the control represents the number of gaps that will be added
after each note. For example, when set to 2, a gap replaces a note in the sequence after two
successive notes. When set to -2, two gaps are added after each note. Note that a pattern can consist
of a maximum of 16 parts. If the Parts control is set to a higher value, the pattern will repeat.

The Pattern toggles visualize the pattern designed with the Parts and Gaps controls and let you
manually add and remove gaps within the pattern, which can be helpful in creating rhythmic
variations. When the number of gaps is changed with the Pattern toggles, the Gaps control shows a
dash. If the control is adjusted, the manually added gaps in the pattern are replaced with those set
through the Gaps control.

The Emphasis toggles let you select which notes or gaps are emphasized in the pattern. Emphasized
pattern elements are affected by the Stretch Chunk(s) value, which stretches the relative length of notes
or gaps from 2 to 8 times longer. When notes or gaps are emphasized, their corresponding Pattern
toggles are grayed out.

You can use the Variation slider to add random variation to the note start and end times.

Notes Before and After Applying the Chop Transformation.
