---
id: 11.2.10
title: "Strum"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.2.10 Strum

The Strum MIDI Tool adjusts the start times of notes in a chord following a shape set by the Strum Low,
Strum High and Tension parameters.

The Strum Transformation.

The Strum Low parameter determines the offset of the successive notes, starting with the lowest note. At
positive values, the note start times are moved forward, whereas at negative values the start times are
moved back. The start time of the lowest note is offset up to one grid step at 100% / -100%. The other
notes are proportionally, matching the shape in the Strum Position display. If the Tension parameter is
set to 0.0%, notes are distributed at an equal distance between each other.

The Strum High parameter determines the offset of the original chord starting with the highest note.
When set to positive values, the note start times are moved forward, whereas at negative values the
start times are moved back. The highest note is offset up to a grid step at 100% / -100%. The other
notes are distributed proportionally to match the shape in the display. If the Tension parameter is set to
0.0%, notes are distributed at an equal distance between each other.

In order for the Transformation to have effect, the Strum Low and/or Strum High parameters must be
set to a value other than 0.0%. You can make changes to both parameters by adjusting their
respective breakpoints in the Strum Position display, or by entering a value for each using your
computer keyboard.

The Tension parameter changes the offset of note start times so that they are no longer placed at an
equal distance between each other, but instead alongside a curve, with distances between notes
being larger or smaller, depending on the settings. At positive Tension values, the distance between
the notes will be greater at the start of the note sequence and decrease exponentially. At negative
values, the distance between notes at the start of the sequence will be shorter and increase
exponentially.

Notes Before and After Applying the Strum Transformation.
