---
id: 26.33.2
title: "Gain Stage Section"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.33.2 Gain Stage Section

Roar’s Gain Stage Section.

Each routing mode has its own set of gain stages, which can be turned on or off independently using
the Stage toggles in the Gain Stage tabs.

Gain Stage tabs all have the same three controls: Shaper Amount, Shaper Bias, and Filter Frequency.
Shaper and Filter Types can be selected from their corresponding drop-down menus at the bottom of
each Gain Stage tab.

The Shaper Amount control sets the amount of saturation applied to the input signal. You can also click
and drag the shaper waveform in the Shaper Visualization display to modify this parameter. Distortion
occurs when the input signal reaches non-linear portions of the visualized curve.

The Shaper Bias control offsets the signal and creates asymmetrical distortion. At higher settings, it can
emulate the sound of a broken circuit. At more extreme settings, it will cause the signal to go
completely quiet.

The Shaper Type drop-down menu under the Shaper Visualization display has twelve curves to
choose from:

Soft Sine uses a sinusoidal curve to add smooth, warm saturation to the input signal. This shaper curve
tends to produce pleasant, analog-style distortion even when pushed to extreme levels.

Digital Clip applies a hard clipping curve to the input signal. It produces harsh, higher-order
harmonics when the input signal reaches the curve’s extremities.

Bit Crusher produces the characteristic distortion that occurs when quantized amplitudes are applied
to an input signal, similar to Live’s Redux device. Increasing the Shaper Amount reduces the number of
bits used for quantization and intensifies the effects of the bit crusher’s built-in compander. This curve
works well with bias modulation and produces very obvious changes in quieter signals.

Diode Clipper this type is a virtual analog clipping circuit emulation. It sounds smooth and warm like
the Soft Sine curve, but with attenuated high-end frequencies.

Tube Preamp models the soft, analog saturation of a tube preamp. It preserves a signal’s transients
and dynamics even when the Shaper Amount is set to higher levels.

Half Wave Rectifier and Full Wave Rectifier produce distinctive, waveshaper-style effects. Half Wave
Rectifier applies completely asymmetrical distortion to the input signal, which works well for adding
crunch to drum sounds. Full Wave Rectifier shifts the signal up by an octave, which works well for
adding harmonic depth to certain synth sounds.

Polynomial shifts between a sinusoidal curve and more complex waveforms. This shaper curve lends
itself well to modulation and to producing metallic sounds.

Fractal introduces a large of amount of high-end harmonics to the input signal.

Tri Fold this type is a triangular wavefolder. Like Fractal, it adds a large amount of high-end harmonics
to the input but achieves even harsher, more distorted results.

Noise Injection applies stereo noise followed by smooth distortion to the input signal. This curve works
well for producing smooth saturation that also has some dirt and grit.

Shards continuously changes the slope of its stereo curve segments to rhythmically break apart the
input signal.

Shapers can also be turned on or off via the toggle at the bottom of the Shaper Visualization display.

The Shaper Level control can be used to compensate for changes in output level produced as the
shaper curve is modified.

Filter Frequency adjusts the filter’s cutoff frequency. If the Pre toggle has been activated, the filter is
applied before the Shaper stage. When the Filter Frequency is changed with Pre activated, the filter
doesn’t affect the harmonics produced by the shaper.

There are eight filter types to choose from: low-pass, band-pass, high-pass, notch, peak, morph,
comb, and resampling. The Comb filter creates a series of notches across the frequency spectrum.
When its cutoff is modulated, this filter type can produce flanger-like effects. The Resampling filter
produces sample-rate reduction artifacts, similar to Live’s Redux device.

Apart from the Resampling filter, each filter has a dedicated Resonance control. The Peak filter has a
Filter Peak Gain control for boosting or attenuating a specific frequency range. The Morph filter has a
Morph control for setting its filter shape.

26.33.3 Modulation Section

To display Roar’s modulation parameters, click on the toggle in the Modulation panel. This will bring
up the Mod Sources and Matrix tabs.

Roar’s Modulation Toggle.

Roar’s Modulation Section.

The Mod Sources tab has four modulation sources to choose from: LFO 1, LFO 2, Env, and Noise.

Each LFO has five waveforms: three bipolar waveforms (sine, triangle, square) and two unipolar ramp
waveforms (up or down).

LFOs can be set to Free, Synced, Triplet, Dotted, or Sixteenth rates using the Mode drop-down menu.
Rate speed can be set in Hertz or tempo-synced and can be modified by clicking and dragging a
given rate up or down. Morph and Smooth controls can be changed in real time or modulated to
further sculpt LFO shapes.

The Env tab’s envelope follower generates a modulation signal based on Roar’s input signal. Attack,
Release, Threshold, Gain, Frequency, and Width controls let you hone in on the element you’d like to
isolate, even in busy sound sources. When activated, the Envelope Input Listen toggle plays back the
input signal only. Note that the Envelope Follower’s filter only affects what the envelope reacts to, not
Roar’s output signal.

The Envelope Follower is particularly useful as a modulation source in Roar’s Modulation Matrix. Try
setting it to follow a snare sound in a drum loop, for example, and have it modulate Roar’s Dry/Wet
balance or its Shaper Amount each time the snare hits.

The Noise modulation source includes four different noise types: Simplex, Wander, S & H, and Brown.
Noise curves can be set in Hertz or tempo-synced and can be smoothed like Roar’s LFO curves.

Simplex and Wander both generate smoothed random signals, with different random value
interpolation algorithms used to produce different signal dynamics. Simplex uses interrate modulation,
which produces a more irregular value interval than Wander. These types of noise are useful for
introducing small, random, organic-style changes in Roar’s output signal, especially when set to low
rates.

S & H (Sample and Hold) generates a random constant value that changes to a new random value at
an interval determined by the Noise Rate. This is useful for creating stepped random modulation
patterns in Roar’s output signal.

Brown produces low-pass filtered white noise, which is useful for producing a constant noise floor or
for adding crackles and hissing to Roar’s output signal.

The Matrix tab lets you assign modulation sources to modulation targets within the device. Clicking a
parameter while the Matrix tab is open will set it as a modulation target. Modulation sources are
listed horizontally and modulation targets are listed vertically. Click and drag a cell up or down to
apply modulation between parameters.

The Global Modulation Amount slider can be dragged up or down to increase or decrease the
modulation being applied globally. Clicking the X button will erase all modulation applied by the
Modulation Matrix.

The Modulation Matrix can also be expanded using the toggle in the device header. When
expanded, the device’s gain stages are all visible at once, as are all of the modulation sources and
targets in the Modulation Matrix.

Roar’s Expanded Matrix.

26.33.4 Feedback Section

Roar’s Feedback Section.

The Feedback section is one of Roar’s most distinctive features. Feeding Roar’s signal back into itself
can add a new layer of ringing, otherworldly tones and textures to your sound.

The Feedback Mode drop-down lets you choose between five feedback modes: Time, Synced, Triplet,
Dotted, and Note. Synced and Time modes let you use Roar’s Feedback as a delay. Note mode lets
you set the feedback’s ring to a specific pitch.

The Feedback Amount knob sets the amount of signal being fed back into Roar’s input. Because a
compressor is present in Roar’s feedback loop, loud signals will temporarily attenuate the amount of
feedback being generated as gain reduction is applied by the compressor.

When the Feedback Invert toggle is turned on, the phase of Roar’s feedback signal is inverted. The
phase cancelation effect that occurs when this inverted signal is fed back into the original creates
another layer to experiment with in Roar’s processing chain.

When the Feedback Gate toggle is turned on, Roar’s feedback automatically fades out when an input
signal is no longer being sent into the device. When turned off, Roar’s feedback continues indefinitely.

The Feedback Filter Frequency slider sets the center frequency of the band-pass filter used to process
Roar’s feedback. The Feedback Filter Width slider adjusts the filter’s bandwidth.

26.33.5 Global Section

Roar’s Global Section.

The Compression Amount knob sets the amount of compression being applied to the output signal,
and thereby to the signal being fed back into Roar.

When the Compressor Sidechain HP Filter toggle is turned on, a high-pass filter is applied to the
analysis signal used by the compressor’s sidechain. This is useful for lowering the amount of gain
reduction generated by the compressor’s response to low frequency signals.

The Output Gain knob sets the level of the wet signal being output, which is followed by a hard
clipping stage and then fed into the Dry/Wet stage. This parameter is useful for compensating level
changes produced by the Drive or Shaper Amount knobs.

The Dry/Wet slider adjusts the balance between the dry and wet signal being output by Roar.

26.34 Saturator

The Saturator Effect.

Saturator is a waveshaping effect that can add that missing dirt, punch or warmth to your sound. It
works by applying non-linear shaping to the input signal, with results ranging from soft saturation to
intense coloration.

Saturator shapes the incoming signal by mapping each individual value in the signal to a new value
according to a selected shaping curve. Because this is usually a non-linear process, the incoming
signal is dynamically reshaped based on its level at each moment in time.

You can select the curve used for shaping the input signal from the Curve Type chooser. There are
eight types to choose from: Analog Clip, Soft Sine, Bass Shaper, Medium Curve, Hard Curve, Sinoid
Fold, Digital Clip, and Waveshaper.

The available curve types offer various shaping characteristics. Digital Clip applies immediate, hard
clipping when exceeding the clipping point, while Analog Clip introduces a smoother transition
around the clipping point. These curves remain linear for signal levels below the clipping point. The
Soft Sine, Medium Curve, and Hard Curve types apply saturation with different sonic characteristic.
Sinoid Fold is a wavefolding type — as the input signal gets louder, the output folds over itself,
producing unusual textures.

The Bass Shaper curve is somewhat similar to Analog Clip, but presents a smoother harmonic
spectrum when driving low frequency signals with high gain. This makes it ideal for processing low-
end signals like 808 kick drums and synth basslines.

Bass Shaper includes an additional Bass Shaper Threshold control, which sets the threshold for the
curve from 0 to -50 dB. The curve remains linear when the input signal is below the threshold but
smoothly starts to clip once the signal exceeds the threshold. This allows you to move continuously
from one form of clipping to another: low threshold values produce soft clipping and high threshold
values produce hard clipping. Low threshold values work best for bass signals, especially when
combined with high Drive values.

The most dramatic signal shaping effect can be created by selecting the Waveshaper curve. This type
has its own dedicated set of controls, which are accessible by clicking the Toggle Expanded View
button in the device title bar; you can read more about how these parameters affect the signal in the
dedicated section below.

The Shaper Curve display both helps to visualize Saturator’s shaping curve and shows the input signal
in relation to the selected curve type in real time. Saturation occurs when the input signal reaches the
non-linear sections of the curve.

You can select a post-clipping stage for all the curve types using the Post Clip Mode chooser below
the Shaper Curve display. When Soft Clip or Hard Clip is selected, Saturator’s output will never
exceed the level set by the Output control. This is particularly useful for controlling any additional
boost created by negative Color values.

The Color toggle enables the device’s two color filters, which produce a color curve visualized in the
device’s expanded view. The color filters adjust an EQ curve that is first applied before the shaper,
then applied again, inverted, after the shaper. This allows you to, for example, remove bass
frequencies before the shaper, so that only mid/high frequencies are saturated and the energy of the
bass is maintained in the output.

You can use the Amt Lo slider to adjust the amount of saturation applied to low frequencies. Negative
values reduce the overall saturation applied to low frequencies, while positive values increase it.

The Drive control adjusts the gain applied to the input signal before it is processed by Saturator. You
can see how much this parameter is affecting the input signal in the device’s Shaper Curve display.

The Output control attenuates the signal level of Saturator’s final output. When Soft Clip is activated in
the Post Clip Mode chooser, Saturator will also apply an instance of the Analog Clip curve to the
device’s output.

The Dry/Wet control sets the balance between dry and processed signals in Saturator’s output. Set it
to 100% when using Saturator in a return track.

The Color Curve display in the expanded view shows a visualization of the curve being applied by
the device’s two color filters.

The Color Curve Display and Color Filter Parameters.

Below the display, there are three more controls for shaping Saturator’s color filters. Use the Amt Hi
slider to adjust the amount of saturation applied to the specified frequency range via the second filter.
Positive values add more saturation, while negative values decrease it. The Frequency slider can be
used to adjust the center frequency affected by the second color filter, while Width determines the
overall range of frequencies affected by it.

You can adjust the color filter parameters by clicking and dragging the handles in the Color Curve
display — dragging the first handle adjusts the Amt Lo parameter, while dragging the second handle
adjusts the Amt Hi or Frequency parameters, depending on whether you’re dragging the handle
horizontally or vertically.

26.34.0.1 Saturator’s Waveshaper Controls

When you select the Waveshaper curve type, six additional parameters become active in the
expanded view.

The Waveshaper Controls.

The Waveshaper controls influence the device’s signal shaping functions in the following ways:

•

Drive determines how much the Waveshaper curve’s parameters affect the input signal. At 0%,
these parameters have no effect on the Waveshaper curve. At 100%, these parameters fully
shape the curve.

•
•

•

•

•

Curve adds mostly third-order harmonics to the input signal.
Depth controls the amplitude of a sine wave that is superimposed onto the Waveshaper curve.
Increasing the value raises the amplitude of the sine wave, making its effect on the shaping
curve more pronounced. At 0%, the sine wave has no influence.
Linear works with the Curve and Depth parameters to alter the linear portion of the
Waveshaper curve.
Damp flattens any signals near the center of the waveform. It functions like an ultra-fast noise
gate.
Period determines the density of ripples in the superimposed sine wave in relation to the Depth
control.

26.34.0.2 Context Menu Options for Saturator

Two additional modes can be enabled in Saturator’s context menu: Hi-Quality and Pre-DC Filter. The
Hi-Quality mode reduces aliasing and improves sound quality (especially with high frequency
signals), at the cost of a slight increase in CPU usage. The Pre-DC Filter mode activates a DC filter at
Saturator’s input stage, which is useful for removing DC offsets from audio that contains them.
