---
id: 10.7
title: "Editing MIDI Clips"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.7 Editing MIDI Clips

Apart from editing individual notes in a clip, there are also operations that apply to the entire MIDI
clip. Many of these are covered in the Clip View chapter, but there are additional ways of working
with MIDI clips described below.

10.7.1 Cropping MIDI Clips

MIDI data that is outside of the loop brace can be deleted using the Crop Clip command. If there is a
time selection, the MIDI data outside of the selection can be deleted with the Crop to Time Selection
command instead. Simply right-click on a MIDI clip in the Session or Arrangement View and select the
J (Win) / Cmd
relevant option, or use the Ctrl

J (Mac) keyboard shortcut.

Shift

Shift

Note that unlike cropping samples in audio clips, cropping a MIDI clip does not create a new file on
disk.

10.7.2 The …Time Commands in the MIDI Note Editor

The standard clipboard commands like Cut, Copy and Paste only affect the currently selected notes
(or the notes within a time selection). But, as in Arrangement editing, there are “… Time” commands
that act upon the entire MIDI clip by inserting and deleting time.

Note that these operations do not change the clip start/end position or the loop brace settings.

•

•

•

Duplicate Time places a copy of the selected timespan into the clip, along with any contained
notes.
Delete Time deletes a selection of time from the MIDI clip, thereby moving any notes on either
side of the deleted area closer together in the timeline.
Insert Time inserts as much empty time as is currently selected into the clip, before the selection.

10.7.3 Looping

When editing MIDI, you might find that you want to loop a specific portion of a clip in order to make
fine adjustments while listening to the section repeatedly. You can use the loop markers for this.

You can select a region for looping by moving the position of the loop start and end markers. Note
that it is possible to adjust the looping region during playback.

Use the Loop/Region Markers to Select a Specific Region of the Clip to Play.

Selecting the loop brace in a MIDI clip and pressing Ctrl
the length of the loop brace, duplicates the notes contained within the original loop brace, and zooms
out as necessary to show the entire loop. Any notes to the right of the loop will be moved, so that they
maintain their position relative to the end of the loop.

D (Mac) doubles

D (Win) / Cmd

MIDI clips are looped by default. You can turn off looping for an individual clip using the Clip Loop
toggle in the Clip View’s Main Clip Properties panel. When looping is switched off, the loop brace is
grayed out.

Looping Switched Off for a Clip.
