---
id: 26.42.1
title: "Vocoder Tips"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.42.1 Vocoder Tips

This section explains how to set up the most common Vocoder applications.

26.42.1.1 Singing Synthesizer

The classic vocoder application is the ”singing synthesizer.” To set this up in Live:

1.

2.

3.
4.

5.

6.

Insert Vocoder in the track that contains your vocal material. You can either use a clip that
contains a prerecorded voice clip or, to process a live vocal signal, connect a microphone to a
channel on your audio hardware and choose this as the input source for the track.
Insert a synthesizer such as Analog in another track. Again, you can either create a MIDI clip to
drive this synthesizer or play it live.
Set the vocoder’s Carrier chooser to External.
Select the synthesizer track in the vocoder’s Audio From choosers. (For best results, choose Post
FX in the bottom chooser.)
If you’re creating your synthesizer and vocal material in real time, make sure the Arm button is
enabled on both tracks.
Play the synthesizer as you speak into the microphone. You’ll hear the rhythm of your speech,
but with the timbral character and frequencies of the synthesizer. To hear the vocoded signal
alone, solo the voice track so that the ”normal” synthesizer track is muted.

Note: you’ll generally get the best results if your synthesizer sound is bright and rich in harmonics. Try
sawtooth-based patches to improve the intelligibility of the voice. For even more brightness and
clarity, try adjusting the Unvoiced control and/or enabling Enhance.

26.42.1.2 Formant Shifter

If the Vocoder is set to use the modulator as its own carrier, it can be used as a powerful formant
shifter. To do this:

1.
2.
3.

Set the Carrier chooser to Modulator.
Set the Depth to 100%.
Enable Enhance.

Now experiment with different settings of the Formant knob to alter the character of the source. For
even more sound-sculpting possibilities, try adjusting the various filterbank parameters as well.

27. Live MIDI Effect Reference

Live comes with a selection of custom-designed, built-in MIDI effects. These effects can modify
incoming MIDI pitch, length, and velocity data in various ways. You can use a MIDI effect on its own
to add variation to a pattern or combine multiple MIDI effects to create more complex note
sequences.

All MIDI effects with pitch controls support scale awareness. When the Use Current Scale toggle in the
device title bar is enabled, any pitch-related controls can be adjusted in scale degrees instead of
semitones. This ensures that all note transpositions stay within a specific harmonic range.

To learn the basics of using effects in Live, check out the Working with Instruments and Effects chapter.
