---
id: 26.26.2
title: "Interface and Controls"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.26.2 Interface and Controls

The High and Low buttons toggle the high and low bands on or off. With both bands off, the device
functions as a single-band effect. In this case, only the Mid controls affect the incoming signal. The
frequency sliders below the High and Low buttons adjust the crossovers that define the frequency
ranges for each band. If the low frequency is set to 500 Hz and the high frequency is set to 2000 Hz,
then the low band goes from 0 Hz to 500 Hz, the mid band from 500 Hz to 2000 Hz and the high
band from 2000 Hz up to whatever your soundcard or sample rate supports.

Each band has activator and solo buttons. With the activator button disabled for a given band, its
compression/expansion and gain controls are bypassed. Soloing a band mutes the others. The Input
knobs boost or attenuate the level of each band before it undergoes dynamics processing, while the
Output knobs to the right of the display adjust the levels of the bands after processing.

The display area provides a way of both visualizing your dynamics processing and adjusting the
relevant compression and expansion behavior. For each band, the output level is represented by large
bars, while the input level before processing is represented by small bars. With no processing applied,
the input meters will be aligned with the top of the output meters. The scaling along the bottom of the
display shows dB. As you adjust the gain or dynamics processing for a band, you can see how its
output changes in comparison to its input.

As you move your mouse over the display, the cursor will change to a bracket as it passes over the
edges of the blocks on the left or right side. These blocks represent the signal levels under the Below
and over the Above thresholds, respectively. Dragging left or right on the edges of these blocks
adjusts the threshold level. Holding down Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) while dragging a threshold
will adjust the same threshold for all bands. Hold down Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) to
simultaneously adjust the Above and Below thresholds for a single band. Holding down Shift
while dragging left or right allows you to adjust the threshold of a single band at a finer resolution.

As you mouse over the middle of the block, the cursor will change to an up-down arrow. Click and
drag up or down to make the signal within the selected volume range louder or quieter. Holding
down Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) while dragging up or down will adjust the volume of the same
block for all bands. Hold down Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) to simultaneously adjust the Above
and Below volumes for a single band. Holding down Shift while dragging up or down allows you
to adjust the volume of a single band at a finer resolution. Double-clicking within the region resets the
volume to its default.

In technical terms, lowering the volume in the block above the Above threshold applies downward
compression, while raising it applies upward expansion. Likewise, lowering the volume in the block
below the Below threshold applies downward expansion, while raising it applies upward
compression. In all cases, you are adjusting the ratio of the compressor or expander.

The thresholds and ratios of all bands can also be adjusted via the column to the right of the display.
The ”T,” ”B” and ”A” buttons at the bottom right of the display area toggle between displaying the

Time (attack and release), Below (threshold and ratio) and Above (threshold and ratio) for each
band.

For the Above thresholds, Attack defines how long it takes to reach maximum compression or
expansion once a signal exceeds the threshold, while Release sets how long it takes for the device to
return to normal operation after the signal falls below the threshold.

For the Below thresholds, Attack defines how long it takes to reach maximum compression or
expansion once a signal drops below the threshold, while Release sets how long it takes for the
device to return to normal operation after the signal goes above the threshold.

With Soft Knee enabled, compression or expansion begins gradually as the threshold is approached.

The RMS/Peak switch also affects how quickly Multiband Dynamics responds to level changes. With
Peak selected, the device reacts to short peaks within a signal. RMS mode causes it to be less sensitive
to very short peaks and to begin processing only when the incoming level has crossed the threshold
for a slightly longer time.

The global Output knob adjusts the overall output gain of the device.

The Time control scales the durations of all of the Attack and Release controls. This allows you to
maintain the same relative envelope times, but make them all faster or slower by the same amount.

The Amount knob adjusts the intensity of the compression or expansion applied to all bands. At 0%,
each compressor/expander has an effective ratio of 1, meaning that it has no effect on the signal.
