---
id: 26.26.3
title: "Sidechain Parameters"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.26.3 Sidechain Parameters

The Multiband Dynamics Device With Sidechain Section.

Normally, the signal being processed and the input source that triggers the device are the same
signal. But by using sidechaining, it is possible to apply dynamics processing to a signal based on the
level of another signal or a specific frequency component. To access the Sidechain parameters, unfold
the Multiband Dynamics window by toggling the

 button in its title bar.

Enabling the Sidechain button allows you to select any of Live’s internal routing points from the
choosers below. This causes the selected source to act as the device’s trigger, instead of the signal that
is actually being processed.

The Gain knob adjusts the level of the external sidechain’s input, while the Dry/Wet knob allows you
to use a combination of sidechain and original signal as the trigger. With Dry/Wet at 100%, the
device is triggered entirely by the sidechain source. At 0%, the sidechain is effectively bypassed. Note
that increasing the gain does not increase the volume of the source signal in the mix. The sidechain
audio is only a trigger for the device and is never actually heard.

The headphones button allows you to listen to only the sidechain input, bypassing the device’s output.
Since the sidechain audio isn’t fed to the output, and is only a trigger for the device, this temporary
listening option can make it much easier to set sidechain parameters and hear what’s actually making
the device work.
