---
id: 26.26.4
title: "Multiband Dynamics Tips"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.26.4 Multiband Dynamics Tips

Multiband Dynamics is a feature-rich and powerful device, capable of up to six independent types of
simultaneous processing. Because of this, getting started can be a bit intimidating. Here are some
real-world applications to give you some ideas.

26.26.4.1 Basic Multiband Compression

By using only the upper thresholds, Multiband Dynamics can be used as a traditional ”downward”
compressor. Adjust the crossover points to suit your audio material, then apply downward
compression (by dragging down in the upper blocks in the display or by setting the numerical ratios to
values greater than 1.)

26.26.4.2 De-essing

To remove ”harshness” caused by overly loud high frequency content, try enabling only the upper
band and setting its crossover frequency to around 5 kHz. Then gradually adjust the threshold and
ratio to apply subtle downward compression. It may help to solo the band to more easily hear the
results of your adjustments. Generally, de-essing works best with fairly fast attack and release times.

26.26.4.3 Uncompression

Mastering engineers are often asked to perform miracles, like adding punch and energy to a mix that
has already been heavily compressed, and thus has almost no remaining transients. Most of the time,
these mixes have also been heavily maximized, meaning that they also have no remaining headroom.
Luckily, upward expansion can sometimes help add life back to such overly squashed material. To do
this:

1.
2.
3.

Turn down the Input knob to provide some additional headroom.
Adjust the Above thresholds for the bands so that they’re below the highest peaks.
Add a small amount of upward expansion to each band. Be careful — excessive upward
expansion can make transients very loud.

4.

Carefully adjust the attack and release times for each band. Note that, unlike in typical
downward compression, very fast attack times will increase the impact of transients, while
slower times result in a more muffled sound.

Note: Adding a maximizer or limiter to boost gain after you’ve returned some peaks to your material
may simply destroy them again.
