---
id: 26.26.1
title: "Dynamics Processing Theory"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.26.1 Dynamics Processing Theory

To understand how to use the Multiband Dynamics device, it helps to understand the four different
methods of manipulating dynamics.

When we use the term “compression,” we’re typically talking about lowering the level of signals that
exceed a threshold. This is how Live’s Compressor works, and is more accurately called downward
compression because it pushes loud signals down, thus reducing the dynamic range. But it is also
possible to reduce a signal’s dynamic range by raising the levels of signals that are below a threshold.
This much-less-common form of compression is called upward compression. As you can see from this
diagram, employing either type of compression results in a signal with a smaller dynamic range than
the original.

Downward and Upward Compression.

The opposite of compression is expansion. A typical expander lowers the levels of signals that are
below a threshold. This is how Live’s Gate works, and is more accurately called downward expansion
because it pushes quiet signals down, thus increasing the dynamic range. It is also possible to increase
a signal’s dynamic range by raising the levels of signals that are above a threshold. Like upward
compression, this technique is known as upward expansion and is much less common. This diagram
shows that either type of expansion results in a signal with a larger dynamic range.

Downward and Upward Expansion.

To summarize:

•
•
•
•

Downward compression (common): make loud signals quieter
Upward compression (uncommon): make quiet signals louder
Downward expansion (common): make quiet signals quieter
Upward expansion (uncommon): make loud signals louder

The Multiband Dynamics device allows for all of these types of processing. In fact, because the device
allows for incoming audio to be divided into three frequency bands, and each band has both an

upper and lower threshold, a single instance of Multiband Dynamics can provide six types of
dynamics processing simultaneously.
