---
id: 26.9.1
title: "Sidechain Parameters"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.9.1 Sidechain Parameters

The Compressor Device With Sidechain Section.

Normally, the signal being compressed and the input source that triggers the compressor are the same
signal. But by using sidechaining, it is possible to compress a signal based on the level of another
signal or a specific frequency component. To access the Sidechain parameters, unfold the
Compressor window by toggling the

 button in its title bar.

The sidechain parameters are divided into two sections. On the left are the external controls. Enabling
this section with the Sidechain button allows you to select any of Live’s internal routing points from the
choosers below. This causes the selected source to act as the compressor’s trigger, instead of the
signal that is actually being compressed.

The Gain knob adjusts the level of the external sidechain’s input, while the Dry/Wet knob allows you
to use a combination of sidechain and original signal as the compressor’s trigger. With Dry/Wet at
100%, the compressor is triggered entirely by the sidechain source. At 0%, the sidechain is effectively
bypassed. Note that increasing the gain does not increase the volume of the source signal in the mix.
The sidechain audio is only a trigger for the compressor and is never actually heard.

Note that automatic Makeup is not available when using external sidechain.

On the right of the external section are the controls for the sidechain EQ. Enabling this section causes
the compressor to be triggered by a specific band of frequencies, instead of a complete signal. These
can either be frequencies in the compressed signal or, by using the EQ in conjunction with an external
sidechain, frequencies in another track’s audio.

The headphones button between the external and EQ sections allows you to listen to only the
sidechain input, bypassing the compressor’s output. Since the sidechain audio isn’t fed to the output,
and is only a trigger for the compressor, this temporary listening option can make it much easier to set
sidechain parameters and hear what’s actually making the compressor work.
