---
id: 26.9.2
title: "Compressor Tips"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.9.2 Compressor Tips

This section presents some tips for using Compressor effectively, particularly with the sidechain
options.

26.9.2.1 Mixing a Voiceover

Sidechaining is commonly used for so-called ”ducking” effects. For example, imagine that you have
one track containing a voiceover and another track containing background music. Since you want the
voiceover to always be the loudest source in the mix, the background music must get out of the way
every time the narrator is speaking. To do this automatically, insert a Compressor on the music track,
but select the narration track’s output as the external sidechain source.

26.9.2.2 Sidechaining in Dance Music

Sidechaining/ducking is a dance music producer’s secret weapon because it can help to ensure that
basslines (or even whole mixes) always make room for the kick drum. By inserting a compressor on

the bass (or Main) track and using the kick drum’s track as the sidechain input, you can help to control
problematic low frequencies that might interfere with the kick drum’s attack.

Using the sidechain EQ in conjunction with this technique can create ducking effects even if you only
have a mixed drum track to work with (as opposed to an isolated kick drum). In this case, insert the
Compressor on the track you want to duck. Then choose the drum track as the external sidechain
source. Then enable the sidechain EQ and select the low-pass filter. By carefully adjusting the
Frequency and Q settings, you should be able to isolate the kick drum from the rest of the drum mix.
Using the sidechain listen mode can help you tune the EQ until you find settings you’re happy with.

Note that Compressor’s internal algorithms were updated in Live 9, in collaboration with Dr. Joshua D.
Reiss of the Centre for Digital Music, Queen Mary University of London.
