---
id: 26.12.0.1
title: "Mid-High Frequency Shaping"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.12.0.1 Mid-High Frequency Shaping

The mid-high frequency shaping tools are designed to add clarity and presence to drums such as
snares and hi-hats.

Crunch adjusts the amount of sine-shaped distortion applied to mid-high frequencies.

The Damp control is a low-pass filter, which removes unwanted high frequencies that can occur after
adding distortion.

The Transients knob emphasizes or de-emphasizes the transients of frequencies above 100 Hz.
Positive values add attack and increase sustain, resulting in a full, “punchy” sound. Negative values
also add attack, but decrease sustain. This tightens up the drums, giving them a sharper, more crisp
sound with less room and rattle.

Low-End Enhancement

Drum Buss’s low-end enhancement is made up of two tools: a resonant filter, which dramatically
boosts bass frequencies, as well as a Decay control, which allows you to adjust the decay rate of both
the incoming audio and the signal processed by the resonant filter. These tools help you to fill out the
low-end of your drums.

The Boom knob adjusts the amount of low-end enhancement that the resonant filter produces. The
Bass Meter lets you see the Boom’s effect on the signal, which can be particularly useful if you can’t
hear it.

The Freq knob adjusts the frequency of the low-end enhancer. Force To Note lets you tune the low-end
enhancer by setting its frequency to the value of the nearest MIDI note.

The Decay control adjusts the decay rate of the low frequencies. When the Boom amount is set to 0%,
the decay affects the incoming (post-drive and distortion) signal only. When the “Boom Level” is
adjusted above 0%, the decay affects both the incoming and processed signals.

To solo the result of the low-frequency enhancer, enable Boom Audition via the headphone icon.
