---
id: 39.26
title: "Accessing Menus"
chapter: 39
---
# 39.26 Accessing Menus

On Windows, you can access each menu by pressing Alt and the first letter of the menu ( Alt
for “File,” for instance). While a menu is open, you can use:

F

•
•
•

The up and down arrow keys to navigate the menu items.
The right and left arrow keys to open the neighboring menu.
Enter to choose a menu item.

On Mac, you can access individual menu entries by pressing Cmd
? . This opens a search field that
will suggest menu entries as you type. You can navigate the suggested options by pressing the up and
down arrow keys and then press Enter to choose one.

39.27 Using Live’s Context Menu

A context menu is available in different areas of Live for quick access to commonly used menu items
and actions. To access the context menu, right-click (Win) / Ctrl-click (Mac) on the part of the
interface where you would like to execute a particular command. The context menu can also be
opened using the shortcut Menu or Shift
M on Mac. It is
worth noting that the context menu may sometimes contain applicable options from Live’s Settings.
You should change these options with care, as they will affect not only the currently selected item but
also the general settings of the program.

F10 on Windows or VO

Shift

Some commands only appear in the context menu. Among these are: various options for working with
the browser, special grid marker commands for directing Auto-Warp, detailed options for zoom-
adaptive and fixed grid line width, copying and pasting for Operator’s envelopes and oscillators, and
numerous device-specific commands.

40. Credits

Ableton Live 12 Manual

for Windows and Mac

Reference Manual by Michelle Hughes, Sara Riegel, Ania Kuźbik, Chandler Tipton, Timothy Beutler,
Dennis DeSantis, Ian Gallagher, Kevin Haywood, Rose Knudsen, Gerhard Behles, Jakob Rang,
Robert Henke, Torsten Slama.

Schönhauser Allee 6-7 | 10119 Berlin, Germany

Contact Support: https://www.ableton.com/help/contact-support/

Version 12.0

Copyright 2024 Ableton AG. All rights reserved. Made in Germany.

This manual, as well as the software described in it, is furnished under license and may be used or
copied only in accordance with the terms of such license. The content of this manual is furnished for
informational use only, is subject to change without notice, and should not be construed as a
commitment by Ableton. Every effort has been made to ensure that the information in this manual is
accurate. Ableton assumes no responsibility or liability for any errors or inaccuracies that may appear
in this book.

Except as permitted by such license, no part of this publication may be reproduced, edited, stored in a
retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, recording or
otherwise, without the prior written permission of Ableton.

Ableton, the Ableton Logo, the Live logo are trademarks of Ableton AG. Apple, Finder, GarageBand,
Mac, Macintosh, macOS, OS X and QuickTime are trademarks of Apple Inc, registered in the U.S.
and other countries. Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States
and other countries. Intel is a registered trademark of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United
States and other countries. SONiVOX is the brand name trademark of Sonic Network, Inc. VST and
ASIO are trademarks and software of Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH. Recycle and REX2 are
trademarks of Propellerhead Software AB. All other product and company names are trademarks or
registered trademarks of their respective holders.

Content provided by:

•
•
•
•

SONiVOX
Chocolate Audio
Puremagnetik
Cycling ’74

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

SonArte
e-instruments
Zero-G
Goldbaby
Sample Magic
Soniccouture
Loopmasters
Uppercussion

Physical Modeling technology provided by:

•

Applied Acoustics Systems

Partner Logos
