---
id: 28.3.1
title: "Subtractive Synthesis"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.3.1 Subtractive Synthesis

Subtractive synthesis is a technique that generally starts with a waveform that is then shaped using
filters to sculpt the original timbres into new forms. In addition to this process, Drift offers many
modulation options for tweaking and customizing the sound even more, allowing you to easily create
a wide variety of sounds. The signature Drift control lets you add pitch and frequency variation to
each voice, resulting in a slightly detuned, fluctuating pulse throughout the tone.

28.3.2 Oscillator Section

Drift’s Oscillator Section.

Drift’s Oscillator section features two separate oscillators, pitch modulation controls, a waveform
display, an oscillator mixer, and a noise generator.

28.3.2.1 Oscillator 1

You can select from several curated waveforms using the Osc 1 drop-down menu: Sine, Triangle,
Shark Tooth, Saturated, Saw, Pulse, and Rectangle. The Shark Tooth and Saturated waveforms are
unique to Drift; Shark Tooth is based on a classic Moog analog shape with the same name, while
Saturated works well for bass sounds.

The Oct knob transposes Oscillator 1 in octaves. You can use the Shape knob to change the harmonic
content of the waveform into something slightly different, resulting in an effect similar to pulse-width
modulation. As the timbre varies between each waveform, they all respond differently to the Shape
control. When you make adjustments to the control, you can view the result in the Waveform Display
located at the bottom of the Oscillator section. You’ll notice how the waveform changes as you tweak
the Shape value.

To the right of the Shape knob, the Oscillator 1 Shape Mod Source drop-down lets you select a
modulation source that will affect the Shape control, allowing you to further morph the waveform:

•
•

•
•

•

•
•
•

Env 1
Env 2/Cyc - Envelope 2 or the Cycling Envelope can be used for modulation, depending on
which is activated.
LFO
Key - When the Shape Mod Amount is set to a positive value, higher note pitches will produce
more modulation and lower pitches less, and vice versa when the amount is set to a negative
value.
Velocity - Incoming velocity data will be used for modulation; higher note velocities will
produce more modulation and lower note velocities less.
Modwheel
Pressure
Slide

You can set the amount of modulation anywhere between -100% to 100% using the Oscillator 1
Shape Mod Amount slider. Note that Shape Mod can also introduce modulation to the waveform
when set between values of 1% - 100%, even if the Shape control value itself is set to 0%.

28.3.2.2 Oscillator 2

Using the Osc 2 drop-down menu, you can select a waveform for the second oscillator: Sine,
Triangle, Saturated, Saw, and Rectangle.

The Oct knob transposes Oscillator 2 in octaves, while the Detune control offers transposition in
semitones.

28.3.2.3 Pitch Mod

The Pitch Mod section contains two modulation source options, which will affect the pitch of both
oscillators. You can choose Env 1, Env 2 / Cyc, LFO, Key, Velocity, Modwheel, Pressure, or Slide as a
modulation source using the Oscillator Pitch Mod Source drop-down menus. The Oscillator Mod
Amount sliders determine how much each source modulates the pitch within a range from -100% to
100%.

When applying pitch modulation using an LFO that uses the Ratio time mode, it is possible to generate
FM tones.

28.3.2.4 Waveform Display

Drift’s Waveform Display.

The waveform display shows the result of the combined output of Osc 1, Osc 2 and the noise
generator, if enabled. As you make adjustments to the oscillators, you will see how the waveform
changes in the display.

28.3.2.5 Oscillator Mixer

Drift’s Oscillator Mixer.

In Drift’s Oscillator Mixer, you can enable Oscillator 1 and 2, as well as a noise generator that adds
white noise to the overall waveform shape, by using the respective switches.

You can also set the gain for each oscillator and the noise generator with the Osc 1, Osc 2, and
Noise controls. When filter processing is on, high oscillator gain values can reach the maximum
“headroom” of the filters, at which point they stop functioning linearly, resulting in a complex distortion
similarly found in analog hardware.

There are two saturation points in the filter circuits that cause this distortion, one before the filter and
one after. As the oscillator gain values are increased from the default -6.0 dB, the first saturation point
will become activated, and the second will be triggered when gain values are above 0.0 dB.

Enabling the arrow toggles to the right of the gain controls switches on filter processing for the
oscillators and noise generator. If filter processing is switched off, the oscillator and noise generator
output bypasses the filter completely.

The R toggle switches Retrigger for the oscillators on or off. If Retrigger is on, the phase of both
oscillators is reset to the same position each time a note is played; if switched off, the oscillators are
free-running.
