---
id: 28.3.3
title: "Filter Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.3.3 Filter Section

Drift’s Filter Section.

Filtering plays an important role in shaping the timbres produced by the oscillators.

Drift’s Filter section has a low-pass filter that can be switched between two filter types, filter key
tracking, a resonance control, a high-pass filter, and two frequency modulation controls.

The Freq knob sets the cutoff frequency of the low-pass filter. You can use the Type toggle to switch
between two distinct low–pass filters: Type I (12 dB/octave) and Type II (24 dB/octave).

Type I uses a DFM-1 filter which feeds back more of its distortion internally, resulting in a broad range
of tones from subtle filter sweeps to warm drive.

Type II has the Cytomic MS2 filter which uses a Sallen-Key design and soft clipping to limit
resonance.

The Key slider determines how the pitch of incoming MIDI notes influences the low-pass filter’s
frequency. If set to 0.00, MIDI notes have no effect on filter frequency. If set to 1.00, the filter
frequency will be lower for low notes and higher for high notes.

The Res knob adjusts the resonance of the low-pass filter, while the HP knob sets the cutoff frequency
for the high-pass filter.

You can also click anywhere in the Filter section to access and adjust the envelope using the display in
the Envelopes section with an X-Y controller. You can drag the left filter dot horizontally to set the high-
pass frequency. The right filter dot adjusts the low-pass frequency when dragged horizontally or the
resonance amount when dragged vertically.

You can select up to two modulation sources for the low-pass filter cutoff frequency using the Low-
pass Modulation Source drop-down menus in the Freq Mod section. The Low-pass Modulation
Amount sliders let you determine how much each source modulates the frequency within a range from
-100% to 100%.
