---
id: 28.3.6
title: "Mod Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.3.6 Mod Section

Drift’s Mod Section.

Most of Drift’s parameters can be modulated; you can select up to three modulation sources and
destinations in the Mod section.

You can choose from the following sources using the Modulation Source choosers: Env 1, Env 2 /
Cyc, LFO, Key, Velocity, Modwheel, Pressure, or Slide.

The following destinations are available in the Modulation Destination choosers: Osc 1 Gain, Osc 1
Shape, Osc 2 Gain, Osc 2 Detune, Noise Gain, LP Frequency, LP Resonance, HP Frequency, LFO
Rate, Cyc Env Rate, and Main Volume.

You can use the Modulation Amount sliders to set how much the modulation destination is affected by
the modulation source within a range of -100% to 100%.

28.3.7 Global Section

Drift’s Global Section.

Drift’s global controls affect the overall behavior and performance of the instrument.

The Mode chooser lets you select from Drift’s four different Voice Modes:

Poly uses one voice per note and offers up to 32 voices of polyphony.

Mono plays one note at a time, but the note is rendered using four voices to produce a unison effect
depending on the Mono Thickness value. The Mono Thickness slider lets you adjust the relative volume
of the four voices associated with each note. When Thickness is set to 0, only one voice will be played
for a note. As Mono Thickness is set to higher values, the volume of the other three voices increases so
that they become audible with each note. A new note will choke the previously played note, if it is still
being held.

Stereo uses two voices per note and pans them to the left and right. The Stereo Spread slider sets how
much panning variation is applied across the individual voices. At higher amounts, the voices are
further apart, producing a widening effect.

Unison slightly detunes the four voices for each note independently from one another. The Unison
Strength slider determines how much pitch variation is applied across individual voices. When set to
higher values, more variation is added to each voice.

You can select the maximum number of voices that can play simultaneously using the Voices drop-
down menu. Certain Voice Modes can utilize more voices than notes played, meaning that
depending on which Voice Mode is selected, the polyphony will be different. For example, when the
Voices amount is set to 32 voices:

•
•
•

Poly mode uses 1 voice per note and has a maximum of 32-note polyphony.
Stereo mode uses 2 voices per note and has a maximum of 16-note polyphony.
Unison mode uses 4 voices per note and has a maximum of 8-note polyphony.

The Drift slider adds slight variation to each voice, affecting different aspects of the voice’s sound, such
as pitch and filter cutoff. Every voice in Drift has a different randomization for the oscillators and filter
frequency; adjusting the Drift control increases or decreases this unique randomization. At higher
amounts, the gaps between the oscillators and the filter widens, making the sound more out of tune.

When the Voice Mode is set to Mono, you can enable the Legato switch so that triggering a new
voice will change its pitch without resetting its envelopes. The Glide slider lets you adjust the time
overlapping notes take to slide their pitch to the next incoming pitch when notes are played legato.

The Volume knob sets the overall volume for the instrument, while the Vel > Vol slider determines how
much the volume will be modulated by incoming MIDI note velocity.

The Transpose slider lets you adjust the global pitch in semitones within a range of -48 to 48 st. You
can switch on the Note PB toggle to enable per-note pitch bend. Switching Note PB off lets you use
an MPE controller without having the pitch change based on finger position. The PB Range slider sets
the global pitch bend range in semitones.
