---
id: 28.3.4
title: "Envelopes Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.3.4 Envelopes Section

Drift’s Envelopes Section.

Envelopes generally determine how the amplitude of the sound changes from the moment a note is
played to when it is released.

Drift’s Envelopes section contains two separate envelopes: one which controls how the amplitude
changes and another that can be used specifically for modulation.

28.3.4.1 Envelope 1

Envelope 1 determines how the amplitude of the Oscillator section’s output (including both oscillators,
as well as the Noise generator if enabled) begins and changes when a note is played and then
released.

You can set the Attack, Decay, Sustain, and Release controls using the respective knobs or by
adjusting the envelope itself in the display.

Attack sets the time needed to travel from the initial value to the peak value.

Decay sets the time needed to travel from the peak value to the Sustain level.

Sustain sets the level reached at the end of the Decay stage; the envelope will remain at this level until
the note ends.

Release sets the time needed to travel back to zero after the note is released.

You can toggle between Envelope 1 and Envelope 2 by clicking the respective section in the UI, or by
using the 1 and 2 toggles in the display. The selected envelope will be shown in the display for
editing.

28.3.4.2 Envelope 2

Envelope 2 also has Attack, Decay, Sustain and Release controls however, unlike Envelope 1,
Envelope 2 is not mapped to amplitude by default, and can be used as a source for all modulation
source options within Drift.

Envelope 2 can be changed from an ADSR envelope to a Cycling Envelope by toggling the switch to
the left of the Attack control.

Cycling Envelope.

The Cycling Envelope functions similarly to an LFO modulation that restarts with each incoming MIDI
note.

The Tilt knob moves the midpoint of the envelope, at very low or high amounts this can also affect the
envelope’s slopes. The Hold control defines how long the envelope stays at its maximum level.

By default, the Cycling Envelope displays the Rate control, which is one of four possible time modes,
also including Ratio, Time, or Sync. You can select the other modes by clicking the switches to the right
of the control. Depending on the time mode, the repetition rate can be set in Hz, ratio, milliseconds, or
tempo-synced beat divisions.
