---
id: 28.3.2.1
title: "Oscillator 1"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.3.2.1 Oscillator 1

You can select from several curated waveforms using the Osc 1 drop-down menu: Sine, Triangle,
Shark Tooth, Saturated, Saw, Pulse, and Rectangle. The Shark Tooth and Saturated waveforms are
unique to Drift; Shark Tooth is based on a classic Moog analog shape with the same name, while
Saturated works well for bass sounds.

The Oct knob transposes Oscillator 1 in octaves. You can use the Shape knob to change the harmonic
content of the waveform into something slightly different, resulting in an effect similar to pulse-width
modulation. As the timbre varies between each waveform, they all respond differently to the Shape
control. When you make adjustments to the control, you can view the result in the Waveform Display
located at the bottom of the Oscillator section. You’ll notice how the waveform changes as you tweak
the Shape value.

To the right of the Shape knob, the Oscillator 1 Shape Mod Source drop-down lets you select a
modulation source that will affect the Shape control, allowing you to further morph the waveform:

•
•

•
•

•

•
•
•

Env 1
Env 2/Cyc - Envelope 2 or the Cycling Envelope can be used for modulation, depending on
which is activated.
LFO
Key - When the Shape Mod Amount is set to a positive value, higher note pitches will produce
more modulation and lower pitches less, and vice versa when the amount is set to a negative
value.
Velocity - Incoming velocity data will be used for modulation; higher note velocities will
produce more modulation and lower note velocities less.
Modwheel
Pressure
Slide

You can set the amount of modulation anywhere between -100% to 100% using the Oscillator 1
Shape Mod Amount slider. Note that Shape Mod can also introduce modulation to the waveform
when set between values of 1% - 100%, even if the Shape control value itself is set to 0%.

28.3.2.2 Oscillator 2

Using the Osc 2 drop-down menu, you can select a waveform for the second oscillator: Sine,
Triangle, Saturated, Saw, and Rectangle.

The Oct knob transposes Oscillator 2 in octaves, while the Detune control offers transposition in
semitones.
