---
id: 26.8.1
title: "Chorus-Ensemble Tips"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.8.1 Chorus-Ensemble Tips

Here are some tips for using Chorus-Ensemble:

•

•

Use Ensemble mode at a rate between 1 Hz and 1.8 Hz and 100% Amount on dry guitars to
create a typical surf-rock sound.
Automate the Feedback Invert toggle at Feedback levels > 90% to create massive bursts of
decaying oscillations.

26.9 Compressor

The Compressor Effect.

A compressor reduces gain for signals above a user-settable threshold. Compression reduces the
levels of peaks, opening up more headroom and allowing the overall signal level to be turned up. This
gives the signal a higher average level, resulting in a sound that is subjectively louder and ”punchier”
than an uncompressed signal.

A compressor’s two most important parameters are the Threshold and the compression Ratio.

The Threshold slider sets where compression begins. Signals above the threshold are attenuated by an
amount specified by the Ratio parameter, which sets the ratio between the input and output signal. For
example, with a compression ratio of 3, if a signal above the threshold increases by 3 dB, the
compressor output will increase by only 1 dB. If a signal above the threshold increases by 6 dB, then
the output will increase by only 2 dB. A ratio of 1 means no compression, regardless of the threshold.

The orange Gain Reduction meter shows how much the gain is being reduced at any given moment.
The more reduction, the more audible the effect; a gain reduction above 6 dB or so might produce the
desired loudness, but significantly alters the sound and is easily capable of destroying its dynamic
structure. This is something that cannot be undone in later production steps. Keep this in mind
especially when using a compressor, limiter, or sound loudness-maximizing tool in the Main track.
Less is often more here.

Because compression reduces the volume of loud signals and opens up headroom, you can use the
Output (Out) control so that the peaks once again hit the maximum available headroom. The Output
meter shows the output signal’s level. Enabling the Makeup button automatically compensates the
output level if the threshold and ratio settings change.

Dry/Wet adjusts the balance between the compressed and uncompressed signals. At 100%, only the
compressed signal is heard, while at 0%, the device is effectively bypassed.

The Knee control adjusts how gradually or abruptly compression occurs as the threshold is
approached. With a setting of 0 dB, no compression is applied to signals below the threshold, and full
compression is applied to any signal at or above the threshold. With very high ratios, this so-called
”hard knee” behavior can sound harsh. With higher (or ”soft”) knee values, the compressor begins
compressing gradually as the threshold is approached. For example, with a 10 dB knee and a -20 dB
threshold, subtle compression will begin at -30 dB and increase so that signals at -10 dB will be fully
compressed.

Compressor’s display can be switched between several modes via switches in the bottom corners of
the display:

•

The Collapsed view shows only the essential controls.

Compressor’s Collapsed View.

•

The Transfer Curve shows the input level on the horizontal axis and output level vertically. This
view is useful for setting the Knee parameter, which is visible as a pair of dotted lines around
the threshold.

Compressor’s Transfer Curve.

•

The Activity view shows the level of the input signal in light gray. In this mode, the GR and
Output switches toggle between showing the amount of gain reduction in orange or the output
level in a darker gray. These views are useful for visualizing what’s happening to the signal over
time.

Compression Activity Display, Showing Input and Output.

The Attack and Release controls are essential parameters for controlling the response time of
Compressor by defining how fast it reacts to input-level changes.

Attack defines how long it takes to reach maximum compression once a signal exceeds the threshold,
while Release sets how long it takes for the compressor to return to normal operation after the signal
falls below the threshold. With Auto Release enabled, the release time will adjust automatically based
on the incoming audio.

A slight amount of attack time (10-50 ms) allows peaks to come through unprocessed, which helps
preserve dynamics by accentuating the initial portion of the signal. If these peaks cause overloads,
you can try shortening the attack time, but extremely short times take the ”life” out of the signal, and
may lead to a slight “buzziness” caused by distortion. Short release times can cause ”pumping” as
the compressor tries to figure out whether to compress or not; while generally considered an
undesirable effect, some engineers use it on full drum kits to give unusual ”sucking” effects. Careful
adjustment of attack and release times is essential when it comes to compression of rhythmical
sources. If you are not used to working with compressors, play a drum loop and spend some time
adjusting Attack, Release, Threshold and Gain. It can be very exciting!

A compressor can only react to an input signal once it occurs. Since it also needs to apply an attack/
release envelope, the compression is always a bit too late. A digital compressor can solve this
problem by simply delaying the input signal a little bit. Compressor offers three different Lookahead
times: zero ms, one ms and ten ms. The results may sound pretty different depending on this setting.

Compressor can be switched between three basic modes of operation. With Peak selected,
Compressor reacts to short peaks within a signal. This mode is more aggressive and precise, and so
works well for limiting tasks where you need to ensure that there are absolutely no signals over the set
threshold. RMS mode causes Compressor to be less sensitive to very short peaks and compress only
when the incoming level has exceeded the threshold for a slightly longer time. RMS is closer to how
people actually perceive loudness and is usually considered more musical. Expand mode lets you set
the ratio of expansion between the input and output level. For example, a ratio of 1 to 2 means that
for every 1 dB of input above the threshold level, the output level will increase by 2 dB. A ratio of 1 to
1 results in no expansion. For more information about the various types of dynamics processing, see
the Multiband Dynamics section.

In addition to these modes, Compressor can be switched between two envelope follower shapes that
offer further options for how the device measures and responds to signal levels. In linear (Lin) mode,
the speed of the compression response is determined entirely by the Attack and Release values. In
logarithmic (Log) mode, sharply compressed peaks will have a faster release time than less
compressed material. This can result in smoother and less noticeable compression than Lin mode.
Note that the Lin/Log switch is not visible in Compressor’s collapsed view.
