---
id: 28.2.7
title: "Sound Design Tips"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.2.7 Sound Design Tips

Although Collision has been designed to model the behavior of objects that exist in the physical
world, it is important to remember that these models allow for much more flexibility than their physical
counterparts. While Collision can produce extremely realistic simulations of conventional mallet
instruments such as marimbas, vibraphones and glockenspiels, it is also very easy to “misuse“ the
instrument’s parameters to produce sounds which could never be made by an acoustic instrument.

To program realistic instrument simulations, it helps to think about the chain of events that produces a
sound on a mallet instrument (a marimba, for example), and then visualize those events as sections
within Collision:

•
•

A beater (Mallet) strikes a tuned bar (Resonator 1).
The tuned bar’s resonance is amplified by means of a resonating tube (Resonator 2).

Thus the conventional model consists of the Mallet Exciter and the two resonators in a serial (1 > 2)
configuration.

Of course, to program unrealistic sounds, anything goes:

•

•
•

Try using the Noise Exciter, particularly with long envelope times, to create washy, quasi-
granular textures. These parameters can also be used to simulate special acoustic effects such
as bowed vibraphones or crystal glasses.
Experiment with the resonators in parallel (1 + 2) configuration.
Use the LFOs and MIDI controllers (including MPE-enabled ones) to modulate Collision’s
parameters.

A word of caution: in many ways, Collision’s models are idealized versions of real-world objects.
Consequently, it is very easy to program resonances that are much more sensitive to input than any
physical resonator could be. Certain combinations of parameters can cause dramatic changes in
volume. Make sure to keep output levels low when experimenting with new sounds.
