---
id: 28.2.5
title: "LFO Tab"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.2.5 LFO Tab

Collision’s LFOs.

Collision’s two independent LFOs can be used as modulation sources for a variety of mallet, noise,
and resonator parameters, which are selectable in the Destination choosers. Additionally, they can
modulate each other.

The LFO 1 and LFO 2 switches toggle the respective LFO on and off, while the waveform chooser
determines the wave shape. The choices are sine, square, triangle, sawtooth up, sawtooth down and
two types of noise. The first noise type steps between random values while the second uses smooth
ramps.

The Offs. slider sets the phase offset of the LFO. When Retrigger is enabled, triggering a note restarts
the LFO with the waveform phase set by the Offset parameter.

Each LFO can modulate two targets, which are set via the Destination choosers. The intensity of the
modulations is adjusted with the LFO Destination Amount sliders. Note that these modulation amounts
are relative to the LFO’s Amount value.

Rate adjusts the speed of the LFO and can be set in Hertz or tempo-synced beat divisions. The Amount
knob determines the overall intensity of the LFO. Rate can be modulated by note pitch and Amount by
velocity in the MIDI tab.

28.2.6 MIDI/MPE Tab

Collision’s MIDI/MPE Tab.

The MIDI/MPE tab allows for a wide variety of internal MIDI mappings, both for standard and MPE-
enabled MIDI controllers. A MIDI controller’s pitch bend (including per-note pitch bend), modulation
wheel, pressure and slide signals can be mapped to two destinations each, with independent
modulation intensities set via the Amount sliders.

Additional mallet, noise, resonator, and LFO parameters can be modulated using pitch or velocity
using the Key and Vel sliders.

28.2.6.1 The Global Section

Collision’s Global Section.

The global section contains the parameters that relate to the overall behavior and performance of
Collision.

The Voices drop-down menu lets you set the maximum number of notes that can sound simultaneously.

When Retrig. is on, notes which are already playing will be retriggered, rather than generating an
additional voice. This can help to save CPU resources.

Structure determines the signal flow through the resonators.

In serial mode 1 > 2 both resonators output to Resonator 1. Resonator 1 is then mixed down to mono
and routed to Resonator 2, as well as its own mixer (in stereo).

Resonators in 1 > 2 (Serial) Configuration.

In parallel mode 1 + 2 the output from the Mallet and Noise sections is mixed and then sent directly to
both resonators.

Resonators in 1 + 2 (Parallel) Configuration.

Volume sets the overall volume output.
