---
id: 10.4
title: "Adding MIDI Notes"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.4 Adding MIDI Notes

Notes are added to MIDI clips as you record yourself playing an instrument on an armed track, or
when you retrieve the material you played using the Capture MIDI option. You can also manually add
notes in the MIDI Note Editor by double-clicking in a chosen location or by drawing notes with the
mouse when Draw Mode is active.

The Control Bar’s Draw Mode Toggle.

10.4.1 Draw Mode

You can switch to Draw Mode by toggling the Control Bar’s Draw Mode button or by pressing the
B key. Once enabled, you click and drag inside the MIDI Note Editor to add notes. When Draw
Mode is active, clicking on an existing note will delete that note.

Adding New Notes Using Draw Mode.

There are two different ways of using Draw Mode: the “Draw Mode with Pitch Lock” option in the
Display & Input Settings lets you draw MIDI notes constrained to one single key track (or pitch) at a
time, while holding the Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) key allows freehand melodic drawing. When
disabled, Draw Mode defaults to freehand melodic drawing, and holding the Alt (Win) / Option
(Mac) key enables pitch-locked drawing. In the melodic Draw Mode, when you draw on top of an
existing note that note will be erased. In the pitch-locked Draw Mode, drawn notes will be erased
when you move the cursor back towards the first added note. When the MIDI Note Editor is focused,
the “Draw Mode” entry in the Options and context menus displays the currently selected state of the
“Draw Mode with Pitch Lock” preference, as “Draw Mode (Pitch Lock On/Off)”.

Draw Mode is useful for quickly adding in notes or patterns. When Draw Mode is switched off, you
can move notes around with the arrow keys or by clicking and dragging, either vertically to transpose
them, or horizontally to change their position in time. When Draw Mode is inactive, MIDI notes can
be deleted by double-clicking on them.

10.4.2 Previewing Notes

As long as your MIDI track’s device chain contains an instrument, activating the Preview switch in the
MIDI Editor allows you to hear notes as you add them or select and move existing notes. If the MIDI
track is armed, activating Preview also allows you to step record new notes into the clip. Note that the
Preview switch’s on/off state applies to all MIDI tracks in the Live Set.

Previewing MIDI Notes.
