---
id: 9.3.1
title: "Beats Mode"
chapter: 9
---
# 9.3.1 Beats Mode

Beats mode works best for audio that has a dominant rhythm, such as drum loops and most electronic
dance music. In this mode, the granulation process is optimized to preserve the transients in the audio.

The Preserve control lets you preserve divisions in the sample; these divisions define the boundaries
between portions of audio. When warping percussive samples, choose Transients for the most
accurate results. This setting uses the positions of the audio’s transients to determine the warping
behavior. To preserve specific beat divisions regardless of where the transients are located, choose

one of the grid division options. For some interesting rhythmic artifacts, try using large grid divisions in
conjunction with pitch transposition.

The Transient Loop Mode chooser sets the looping properties for the audio’s transients:

Loop Off — Each segment of audio between transients plays to its end and then stops. Any

remaining time between the end of a segment and the next transient will be silent.

Loop Forward — Each segment of audio between transients plays to its end, then playback jumps

to a zero-crossing near the middle of the segment and continues looping until the next transient
occurs.

Loop Back-and-Forth — Each segment of audio between transients plays to its end, then playback
reverses until it reaches a zero-crossing near the middle of the segment, and proceeds again towards
the end of the segment. This pattern continues until the next transient occurs. When combined with
preserved transients, this mode can often result in a high-quality sound, especially at slower tempos.

The Transient Envelope control determines the volume fade between each audio segment. When set to
100, no fade is applied, while at 0, longer fades are added, causing each segment to decay very
quickly. Higher envelope times can help to smooth out any clicks between segments; lower envelope
times can be used to create rhythmic gating effects.
