---
id: 9.3.5
title: "Complex and Complex Pro Mode"
chapter: 9
---
# 9.3.5 Complex and Complex Pro Mode

Complex mode is useful for warping audio that contains a combination of beats, melodies, and
textures, such as entire songs.

Complex Pro mode uses a variation of the algorithm found in Complex mode, and may offer higher
quality results. Like Complex mode, Complex Pro works especially well with polyphonic textures or full
songs.

The Formants control determines how the sample’s formants (the resonance frequencies of the tone)
are affected when the pitch is transposed. At 100%, the original formants will be preserved, even if
the pitch is changed significantly. This helps maintain the original tonal quality. Note that this control
has no effect if the sample’s transposition is not changed.

The Envelope control also influences the overall tonal quality. The default setting is 128, which should
work well for most samples. For high-pitched samples, lower Envelope values may provide better
results, while low-pitched samples may sound better with higher values.

Depending on your setup, the Complex and Complex Pro modes may be more CPU-intensive than the
other Warp Modes. To save CPU resources you can freeze or resample tracks that use these modes.

10. Editing MIDI

A MIDI clip in Live contains notes and controller data for playing a MIDI instrument. This instrument
can be a virtual instrument in a MIDI track’s device chain or an external synth fed via the track’s output
routing. The MIDI clip provides the device with a musical score to play, specifying note pitch, length,
position and dynamics (referred to as velocity in the MIDI lexicon). MIDI clips are composed in Live’s
MIDI Note Editor and edited using various utilities available in Clip View’s panels, as well as the
Velocity and Chance Editors.
