---
id: 9.3
title: "Warp Modes"
chapter: 9
---
# 9.3 Warp Modes

Live’s Warp Modes use different granular synthesis techniques to manipulate time by repeating or
omitting segments of the audio; these segments are referred to as grains. Each Warp Mode has a
specific way of selecting, overlapping, and crossfading grains, which affects how the audio is
stretched or compressed. Because of this, some Warp Modes are best suited for certain kinds of audio
material, depending on the original tonal characteristics.

While warping can be used for precise time-stretching, there are also many creative ways to alter a
sample’s rhythm for more experimental results.

9.3.1 Beats Mode

Beats mode works best for audio that has a dominant rhythm, such as drum loops and most electronic
dance music. In this mode, the granulation process is optimized to preserve the transients in the audio.

The Preserve control lets you preserve divisions in the sample; these divisions define the boundaries
between portions of audio. When warping percussive samples, choose Transients for the most
accurate results. This setting uses the positions of the audio’s transients to determine the warping
behavior. To preserve specific beat divisions regardless of where the transients are located, choose

one of the grid division options. For some interesting rhythmic artifacts, try using large grid divisions in
conjunction with pitch transposition.

The Transient Loop Mode chooser sets the looping properties for the audio’s transients:

Loop Off — Each segment of audio between transients plays to its end and then stops. Any

remaining time between the end of a segment and the next transient will be silent.

Loop Forward — Each segment of audio between transients plays to its end, then playback jumps

to a zero-crossing near the middle of the segment and continues looping until the next transient
occurs.

Loop Back-and-Forth — Each segment of audio between transients plays to its end, then playback
reverses until it reaches a zero-crossing near the middle of the segment, and proceeds again towards
the end of the segment. This pattern continues until the next transient occurs. When combined with
preserved transients, this mode can often result in a high-quality sound, especially at slower tempos.

The Transient Envelope control determines the volume fade between each audio segment. When set to
100, no fade is applied, while at 0, longer fades are added, causing each segment to decay very
quickly. Higher envelope times can help to smooth out any clicks between segments; lower envelope
times can be used to create rhythmic gating effects.

9.3.2 Tones Mode

Tones mode is useful for stretching audio that has a distinct pitch, such as vocals, monophonic
instruments, and basslines.

Grain Size lets you roughly adjust the average size of the grains used. The actual grain size is
determined by the clarity of pitch changes in the audio. Small grain sizes work best for audio that has
distinct pitch variations. Using larger grain sizes can help prevent unwanted noise but may also cause
audible artifacts.

9.3.3 Texture Mode

Texture mode works well for sounds that don’t have a clear melody or pitch, such as polyphonic
orchestral music, atmospheric pads, noise, or drones. It’s also great for sound design and
experimental audio manipulation.

The Grain Size control determines the grain size used, but unlike in Tones mode, the audio’s tonal
characteristics are not taken into consideration when the grain size is adjusted.

Fluctuation introduces randomness into how the sample is processed. Higher values result in more
random variation.

9.3.4 Re-Pitch Mode

Re-Pitch mode can be used to adjust the sample’s playback rate. This lets you change the pitch of the
sample while modifying its tempo, similar to how DJs change the playback speed on turntables, or
how old samplers change the pitch of samples when sped up or slowed down. For example, if you
double the speed, the pitch goes up by an octave.

In this mode, the sample’s transposition controls are deactivated because changing the playback
speed directly affects the pitch.

9.3.5 Complex and Complex Pro Mode

Complex mode is useful for warping audio that contains a combination of beats, melodies, and
textures, such as entire songs.

Complex Pro mode uses a variation of the algorithm found in Complex mode, and may offer higher
quality results. Like Complex mode, Complex Pro works especially well with polyphonic textures or full
songs.

The Formants control determines how the sample’s formants (the resonance frequencies of the tone)
are affected when the pitch is transposed. At 100%, the original formants will be preserved, even if
the pitch is changed significantly. This helps maintain the original tonal quality. Note that this control
has no effect if the sample’s transposition is not changed.

The Envelope control also influences the overall tonal quality. The default setting is 128, which should
work well for most samples. For high-pitched samples, lower Envelope values may provide better
results, while low-pitched samples may sound better with higher values.

Depending on your setup, the Complex and Complex Pro modes may be more CPU-intensive than the
other Warp Modes. To save CPU resources you can freeze or resample tracks that use these modes.

10. Editing MIDI

A MIDI clip in Live contains notes and controller data for playing a MIDI instrument. This instrument
can be a virtual instrument in a MIDI track’s device chain or an external synth fed via the track’s output
routing. The MIDI clip provides the device with a musical score to play, specifying note pitch, length,
position and dynamics (referred to as velocity in the MIDI lexicon). MIDI clips are composed in Live’s
MIDI Note Editor and edited using various utilities available in Clip View’s panels, as well as the
Velocity and Chance Editors.
