---
id: 26.28.1.5
title: "Sub Warmer"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.28.1.5 Sub Warmer

To add upper harmonics and warmth to a simple sub bass, choose the OD pedal, turn on the Sub
switch and turn up the Bass control. Then, slowly increase the Gain until the desired effect is reached.
You can then cut or boost the mid frequencies using the Mid control.

26.29 Phaser-Flanger

The Phaser-Flanger Effect.

Phaser-Flanger combines the functionalities of flanger and phaser effects into one device with
separate modes, and offers an additional Doubler mode. All modes can be used to create lush,
expressive sounds with a wide variety of tools and detailed options. Two LFOs and an envelope
follower provide plenty of modulation possibilities.

You can choose between the three modes in the display:

•

•

•

Phaser, with its wide range of frequency and modulation ranges, creates wandering notch
filters by feeding a phase-shifted version of the input signal back into the input. The phase
shifting is achieved using modulated all-pass filters and has a lush sound.
Flanger creates a continuously changing comb filter effect by adding a time-modulated
delayed signal with feedback to the input.
Doubler creates the effect of doubled tracks (multiple stacked versions of similar recording
takes) by adding time-modulated delayed signals to the input.

The display contains a visualization and the mode selector buttons. The visualization presents different
information depending on the mode you choose and the LFO Stereo Mode’s settings (described in
more detail below).

In Phaser mode, the visualization shows the number of notches and their spectral positions.

Phaser’s parameters can be adjusted in the lower portion of the display.

Notches increases or decreases the number of all-pass filters being used. Center chooses the center
frequency of the notches. Spread increases or decreases the distance between the notches by
adjusting the Q factor of the all-pass filters. Blend mixes the modulation routing between Center
Frequency and Spread, with Center Frequency at 0.0 and Spread at 1.0.

In Flanger mode, the visualization shows how the modulation signal is affecting the delay time, with
the left-most position equaling the value chosen in the Time parameter. As the visualization moves to
the right, the delay time decreases; as it moves to the left, it increases. Time adjusts the delay time of
the Flanger delay lines.

In Doubler mode, the visualization acts differently than in Flanger mode. Modulation in Doubler mode
is bipolar, meaning that, as the visualization moves to the right, the delay time increases; as it moves to
the left, it decreases. Time adjusts the delay time of the Doubler delay lines.

For finer control over the sound, you can unfold the device by toggling the
Flanger’s title bar to reveal further options for the main LFO, as well as a second LFO, an envelope
follower and a Safe Bass high-pass filter. Also shown is a visualization for the main LFO, in which its
rate, waveform and the phase relationships of the stereo channels are shown.

 button in Phaser-

The Phaser-Flanger Effect’s Unfolded View.

The main LFO’s speed is controlled by the Freq/Rate parameter, and can be either tempo-synced or
free-running. Use the Modulation Sync buttons to the left of the dial to switch between Frequency and
Sync Rate. When set to Hz, the corresponding Freq dial controls the LFO rate in Hertz; otherwise, the
Rate dial will sync the LFO with the song tempo.

Multiple waveforms for the main LFO are available and can be found in the LFO Waveform chooser.
These include Sine, Triangle (default), Saw Up, Saw Down, Rectangle, Random, and Random S&H
(Sample and Hold). Also included are Triangle Analog, Triangle 8, Triangle 16, which are described
below:

•

•
•

Triangle Analog is a low-pass filtered rectangular waveform which changes shape and
amplitude drastically for different LFO rates.
Triangle 8 divides a period of a normal triangular wave into eight discrete steps.
Triangle 16 divides a period of a normal triangular wave into 16 discrete steps.

The LFO Stereo Mode button switches between Phase and Spin modes, both of which allow
modulation of each stereo channel independently.

When Phase is chosen, adjusting the Phase value will change the phase relationship between the left
and right channels. At 180°, the phase of the left and right channels are completely inverted. This can
be seen in the LFOs visualization.

When Spin is chosen, adjusting the Spin value detunes the two LFO rates relative to each other. This
can be seen in the main display’s visualization.

Duty Cycle will change the time scale of the waveform’s period, compressing it towards either the front
of the cycle (100%) or the back of the cycle (-100%). At 0%, the time scale of the period is spread
equally across the entire cycle, leaving the waveform unaffected. This is similar to how Pulse Width
affects rectangular waveforms, and its effects can be seen in the waveform view of the main LFO. This
parameter doesn’t affect the noise-based Random and Random S&H modulation waveforms.

The second LFO always has a triangular waveform, and can be controlled using the LFO2 Mix and
LFO2 Freq/Rate parameters.

LFO2 Mix sets the amount of the LFO2 that is mixed with the main LFO. At 0%, only the main LFO is
active; at 100% only LFO2 is active.

The second LFO’s speed can be set as either free-running or tempo-synced by using the Modulation
Sync 2 toggle buttons. When free-running, the sync frequencies are shown in Hertz and can be
adjusted using the LFO2 Freq parameter. When tempo-synced, beat divisions are shown instead and
can be set using the LFO2 Rate parameter.

Global parameters available include Amount, Feedback, Output, Warmth and Dry/Wet. The
additional envelope follower and Safe Bass high-pass filter are accessible when the device is
unfolded.

Amount adjusts the amount of delay modulation that is applied to incoming signals and affects both
the main LFO and LFO2.

Feedback sets the amount of each channel’s output that is fed back to its input. Increasing this sounds
more extreme and tends to create a strong comb filtering effect, amplifying some frequencies and
attenuating others. In Doubler Mode, it will also create audible delays if playback is stopped. The
feedback signal can be inverted using the Ø button, which results in a “hollow” sound when
combined with high feedback values.

Caution: high feedback values in combination with certain settings can cause quick increases in
volume levels. Be sure to protect your ears and equipment!

Below the main LFO you will find an envelope follower. An envelope follower uses the amplitude from
an incoming audio signal and translates it to a modulation source.

To use the envelope follower, activate the Env Fol button and set the Envelope Amount value to a
value other than zero. Envelope Amount adjusts the intensity of the modulation caused by the
envelope follower. Negative values invert the phase of the envelope.

Attack and Release adjust the attack and release portions of the envelope follower’s envelope.
Shorter Attack times cause the envelope follower to act more quickly, while longer times delay its
onset. Shorter Release times cause the envelope follower to stop its effect faster than longer Release
times.

Safe Bass is a high-pass filter, effectively reducing the effect on signal components below the
specified frequency. The applicable range is from 5 Hz to 3000 Hz. This can make mixing certain
bass-heavy material easier.

Output sets the amount of gain applied to the processed signal. The Warmth control adds slight
distortion and filtering for a warmer sound. The Dry/Wet control adjusts the balance between the
processed and dry signals. Set it to 100% when using Phaser-Flanger in a return track.
