---
id: 18.4
title: "Return Tracks and the Main track"
chapter: 18
---
# 18.4 Return Tracks and the Main track

In addition to Group Tracks and tracks that play clips, a Live Set has a Main track and return tracks;
these cannot play clips, but allow for more flexible signal processing and routing.

The return tracks and the Main track occupy the right-hand side of the Session mixer view and the
bottom end of the Arrangement View.

Note that you can hide and show the return tracks using the Return Tracks entry in the Mixer Controls
submenu within the View menu.

Like regular clip tracks, return tracks can host effects devices. However, whereas a clip track’s effect
processes only the audio within that track, return tracks can process audio sent to them from numerous
tracks.

For example, suppose you want to create rhythmic echoes with a delay effect. If you drag the effect
into a clip track, only clips playing in this track will be echoed. Placing this effect in a return track lets it
receive audio from any number of tracks and add echoes to them.

The Send Controls and Pre/Post Toggles.

A clip or group track’s Send control determines how much of the track’s output feeds the associated
return track’s input. What’s more, even the return track’s own output can be routed to its input, allowing
you to create feedback. Because runaway feedback can boost the level dramatically and
unexpectedly, the Send controls in Return tracks are disabled by default. To enable them, right-click
on a Return track’s Send knob and select Enable Send or Enable All Sends.

Every return track has a Pre/Post toggle that determines if the signal a clip track sends to it is tapped
before or after the mixer stage (i.e., the pan, volume and track-active controls). The “Pre“ setting
allows you to create an auxiliary mix that is processed in the return track, independently of the main
mix. As the return track can be routed to a separate output, this can be used to set up a separate
monitor mix for an individual musician in a band.

The Main track is the default destination for the signals from all other tracks. Drag effects here to
process the mixed signal before it goes to the Main output. Effects in the Main track usually provide
mastering-related functions, such as compression and/or EQ.

You can create multiple return tracks using the Create menu’s Insert Return Track command, but by
definition, there is only one Main track.

18.5 Using Live’s Crossfader

Live includes a crossfader that can create smooth transitions between clips playing on different tracks.
Live’s crossfader works like a typical DJ-mixer crossfader, except that it allows crossfading not only
two, but any number of tracks — including the returns.

The Crossfader.

The crossfader can be accessed via the Mixer Controls submenu in the View menu or the menu
options in the mixer view control at the bottom right of Live’s window. Seven different crossfade curves
are available so that you can choose the one that fits your style the best. To change the curve, right-
click on the crossfader, then select an entry from the context menu.

Choose from Seven Crossfader Curves.

The chart below details the power level and response of each crossfader curve.

Crossfader Curve Properties.

The crossfader can be mapped to any continuous MIDI controller (absolute or incremental). In
addition to the crossfader’s central slider, its absolute left and right positions are separately available
for MIDI or keyboard mapping. There are two special scenarios for remote control with respect to the
crossfader:

•

•

A key mapped to any one of the three assignable crossfader positions (left, center or right) will
toggle the crossfader’s absolute left and right positions.
Mapping to two of the three fields allows for a “snapping back“ behavior when one of the
assigned keys is held down and the other is pressed and released.

Crossfade Assign Buttons.

Each track has two Crossfade Assign buttons, A and B. The track can have three states with respect to
the crossfader:

•
•

•

If neither Assign button is on, the crossfader does not affect the track at all.
If A is on, the track will be played unattenuated as long as the crossfader is in the left half of its
value range. As the crossfader moves toward the right across the center position, the track fades
out. At the crossfader’s rightmost position, the track is muted.
Likewise, if B is on, the track’s volume will be affected only as the crossfader moves left across
its center position.

It is important to understand that the Crossfade Assign buttons do not affect the signal routing; the
crossfader merely influences the signal volume at each track’s gain stage. The track can be routed to
an individual output bus regardless of its crossfade assignment. In studio parlance, you can think of
the crossfader as an on-the-fly VCA group.

As with almost everything in Live, your crossfading maneuvers can be recorded into the Arrangement
for later in-depth editing. To edit each track’s crossfade assignment, please choose “Mixer“ from the
Envelope Device chooser and “X-Fade Assign“ from the Control chooser. The crossfader’s automation
curve is accessible when “Mixer“ is chosen from the Main track’s Device chooser and “Crossfade“ is
selected from its Control chooser.
