---
id: 28.5.3
title: "Fork Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.5.3 Fork Section

Electric’s Fork Section.

The Fork section contains knobs for both Tine and Tone parameters, which are the heart of Electric’s
sound generating mechanism.

Tine controls the portion of the fork that is directly struck by the hammer.

The Color slider controls the relative amplitude of high and low partials in the tine’s spectrum. Low
values result in lower harmonics, while higher values result in higher harmonics.

The Decay knob adjusts how long it takes the tine’s sound to fade out while a note is held. The volume
level of the tine can be modulated by note pitch via the Key slider.

Tone controls the secondary resonance of the fork.

The Release slider applies to both Tine and Tone, and controls the decay time of the fork’s sound after
a key is released. The Decay parameter works in the same way as in the Tine subsection.

28.5.4 Damper/Pickup Section

Electric’s Damper/Pickup Section.

28.5.4.1 Pickup Parameters

In Electric, the Pickup simulates the behavior of the magnetic coil pickup that amplifies the sound of the
resonating fork.

The Symmetry knob and Distance slider adjust the physical location of the pickup in relation to the
tine. Symmetry simulates the vertical position of the pickup. At 50%, the pickup is directly in front of the
tine, which results in a brighter sound. Lower amounts move the pickup below the tine, while higher
amounts move it above the tine. Distance controls how far the pickup is from the tine. Higher amounts
increase the distance, while lower amounts move the pickup closer. Note that the sound becomes
more overdriven as the pickup approaches the tine.

The Type R and W buttons switch between two different types of pickups. In the R position, Electric
simulates electro-dynamic pickups, while W is based on an electro-static model.

The Input slider is used to adjust the amount of the fork’s signal that is fed to the pickup, which in turn
affects the amount of distortion applied to the overall signal. The Output slider controls the amount of
signal output by the pickup section. Different combinations of these two parameters can yield very
different results. For example, a low amount of input with a high amount of output will produce a
cleaner sound than a high input with a low output. The output level can be further modulated by note
pitch via the Key slider.

28.5.4.2 Damper Parameters

The metal forks in an electric piano are designed to sustain for a long time when a key is held. The
mechanism that regulates this sustain is called the damper. When a key is pressed, that note’s damper
is moved away from its fork. When the key is released, the damper is applied to the fork again to stop

it from vibrating. But the dampers themselves make a small amount of sound, both when they are
applied and when they are released. The Damper parameters simulate this characteristic noise.

The Tone slider adjusts the stiffness of the dampers. Lower values simulate soft dampers, which
produces a mellower sound. Higher values increase the hardness of the dampers, producing a
brighter sound. The overall amount of damper noise is adjusted with the Level slider.

The Att/Rel slider adjusts whether or not damper noise is present when the dampers are applied to the
fork or when they are released. At -100, damper noise will only be heard during the note’s attack
phase. At 100, the noise is present only during the release phase. In the center, an equal amount of
noise will be present during both attack and release.
