---
id: 28.5.5
title: "Global Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.5.5 Global Section

Electric’s Global Section.

The Global section contains the parameters that relate to the overall behavior and performance of
Electric.

The Volume knob sets Electric’s overall output level.

The Voices chooser sets the available polyphony. Since each voice that’s used requires additional
CPU, you may need to experiment with this setting to find a good balance between playability and
performance.

The Semi and Detune sliders function as coarse and fine tuners. Semi transposes the entire instrument
up or down in semitone increments, while the Detune slider adjusts in increments of one cent (up to a
maximum of 50 cents up or down).

Stretch simulates a technique known as stretch tuning, which is a common modification made to both
electric and acoustic pianos and is an intrinsic part of their characteristic sound. At 0%, Electric will
play in equal temperament, which means that two notes are an octave apart when the upper note’s
fundamental pitch is exactly twice the lower note’s. But because the actual resonance behavior of a

vibrating tine or string differs from the theoretical model, equal temperament tends to sound “wrong“
on pianos. Stretch tuning attempts to correct this by sharpening the pitch of upper notes while
flattening the pitch of lower ones. The result is a more brilliant sound. Negative values simulate
“negative“ stretch tuning; upper notes become flatter while lower notes become sharper.

Pitch Bend sets the range in semitones of global pitch bend modulation, while Note PB sets the MPE
per-note pitch bend range in semitones.
