---
id: 28.8.9
title: "Filters"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.8.9 Filters

Meld’s Filters Section.

Meld’s two engines each have a dedicated filter, A and B, which can be turned on or off
independently via switches in the Filters section.

The Filter Frequency knob sets the center of the filter’s cutoff frequency.

The Filter Type drop-down menu lets you choose from seventeen different filter types. Each filter has
two macro knobs, which change with the filter type selected.

The most common filter macro knobs in Meld are Q and Drive. Q adjusts the emphasis of the
frequencies around a filter’s cutoff frequency. Drive applies saturation to the input signal before it
passes through the filter, which is useful for producing distortion.

The SVF 12dB and 24dB filters are state variable filters. The L-B-H-N macro control morphs through
this filter type’s four possible configurations: low-pass, band-pass, high-pass, and notch.

The MS2 filters are modeled on a Sallen-Key design from a famous semi-modular Japanese
monosynth, which applies soft clipping to limit resonance. They are available in low-pass and high-
pass configurations in Meld.

The OSR filter is modeled on a state variable filter from a rare British monosynth whose resonance is
limited by a unique hard-clipping diode. It is available in a band-pass configuration in Meld.

LP Crunch 12dB is a dual-mode low-pass filter that feeds the distortion it produces back into itself.

The LP Switched Res filter is modeled on low-pass filters whose resistors are replaced with fast switches
to produce downsampling artifacts. The Lofi macro knob changes the frequency of the filter’s resistors.
If set to a high value, the filter produces a more crushed sound. If set to a low value, it produces a
smoother sound.

Filther is modeled on a low-pass filter that applies distortion to a signal’s input and output. It uses a
hard diode clipper on the input signal and soft saturation on the output signal.

The Eq Peak and Eq Notch filters are peak and notch filters that apply gain and width to an input
signal. The Eq Peak filter’s Boost macro knob boosts frequencies around the filter’s cutoff point. The Eq
Notch filter’s Cut macro knob cuts frequencies around the filter’s cutoff point.

The Phaser filter is a six-stage delayless inverted feedback phaser with variable feedback and notch
spacing. The Phaser filter’s Feedback macro knob sets the amount of output being fed back into the
filter’s input. The Spread macro knob adjusts the spacing between the filter’s notches in the frequency
spectrum.

The Redux filter is a resampler and bitcrusher with a variable sample rate, quantization, and knob
over the amount of resampling artifacts it produces. The Crush macro knob sets the bit depth of the
filter’s output. The Lofi macro knob adjusts the mix between a filtered, sample rate-reduced version of
the signal and the unfiltered, downsampled artifacts Redux has produced.

The Vowel filter is a formant filter that mimics the characteristics of vowels being pronounced, with
various configurations that can be morphed through using the filter’s Morph macro knob.

The Comb + and Comb - filters are feedforward and feedback filters. The Feedback macro knob
adjusts the amount of feedforward or feedback being sent from the filter’s delayed output back into its
input. The Damp knob applies a low-pass filter to the filter’s output, to damp high frequencies.

The Plate Resonator filter applies a set of modal resonators tuned to the first 32 modes of a
rectangular plate to the input signal. The plate’s size, resonance, and dimension ratio can be modified

using its macro knobs. When Filter Scale Awareness is enabled, this filter’s resonating frequencies will
be in scale.

The Membrane Resonator filter applies a set of modal resonators tuned to the first 32 modes of a
circular membrane to the input signal. The membrane’s size, resonance, and high frequency damping
can be modified using its macro knobs. When Filter Scale Awareness is enabled, this filter’s resonating
frequencies will be in scale.
