---
id: 28.8.11
title: "Global Controls"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.8.11 Global Controls

Meld’s Global Parameters.

Meld’s global controls affect the overall sound and behavior of the instrument.

Meld’s Mono/Poly switch toggles between a monophonic and polyphonic output.

When Mono is activated, the Legato switch can be toggled on or off. When Legato is activated, if a
new note is played while another is held, the new note will use the original note’s envelope from its

current position. When Legato is deactivated, each new note played will trigger its own envelope
from the beginning.

When Poly is activated, a drop-down menu lets you set the number of voices usable by Meld, from 2
to 12.

The Spread control adjusts the range of the Spread modulation source in Meld’s Modulation Matrix.
When a voice number is set in the Stacked Voices control, Spread produces an offset between each
stacked voice. When Stacked Voices is set to Off, Spread produces a range of different values for
each note in a held chord. Note that Spread will have no effect if not applied to a modulation target
in the Modulation Matrix.

The Stacked Voices drop-down menu adjusts the number of stacked voices for a single note. Stacked
voices duplicate both engines for each note (including filters, modulation, and mixer settings), and
can create a heavy CPU load.

The Mixer Drive control sets the amount of saturation applied to Meld’s output. Drive is applied per
voice, after mixer settings, and before the limiter.

The Volume control adjusts Meld’s output volume.

The Use Current Scale button makes Meld follow Live’s Scale Mode. When activated, Meld’s
oscillators follow Live’s current scale, with all transpositions (including the Pitch Quant modulation
target in the Modulation Matrix) occurring in scale degrees rather than semitones.
