---
id: 28.8.8
title: "Settings Tab"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.8.8 Settings Tab

Meld’s Engine Settings.

Meld’s Settings tab has three global settings that can be applied per engine: Osc Key Tracking, Scale
Awareness, and Glide.

The Osc Key Tracking switch activates or deactivates oscillator key tracking. When activated, an
oscillator will play the pitch of whatever incoming MIDI note it receives. When deactivated, an

oscillator will play a constant pitch of C3 for all incoming MIDI notes, or the root of a scale in the C3
octave if Scale Mode has been activated. This is useful for performing drones or percussive sounds,
for example.

Enabling the Phase Reset switch resets the phase of the oscillator to a consistent value with each new
note. The Phase Spread switch also becomes accessible when Phase Reset is enabled. When Phase
Spread is activated, the oscillator’s start phase is spread based on the Spread modulation source in
the Modulation Matrix. When Phase Spread is deactivated, the start phase is set to zero.

Two switches can be activated in the Scale Awareness section: Oscillator Scale Awareness and Filter
Scale Awareness.

When Oscillator Scale Awareness is activated, pitches controlled by scale-aware oscillator types will
also be in scale. The following oscillator types, marked with a (♭♯), are scale aware: Dual Basic
Shapes, Swarm Sine, Swarm Triangle, Swarm Saw, Swarm Square, and Chip.

When Filter Scale Awareness is enabled, the resonating frequencies of scale-aware filter types will
also be in scale. The following filter types, marked with a (♭♯), are scale aware: Plate Resonator and
Membrane Resonator.

The Glide section has two glide modes, Portamento (Porta) and Glissando (Gliss), as well as a Glide
Time control.

The Glide Time control sets the time that overlapping notes take to slide into the next incoming pitch.
Glide is active in both Mono and Poly modes.

When Portamento is activated and a note is played while another is held down, the first note’s pitch
will slide progressively into the second note’s pitch. When Glissando is activated and a note is played
while another is held down, the first note’s pitch will ascend or descend into the second note’s pitch in
discrete steps. Glissando produces these steps in scale degrees if scale awareness is enabled. Note
that portamento and glissando effects are only audible when Glide Time is set to a value above zero.
