---
id: 28.8.3
title: "Oscillator Macros"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.8.3 Oscillator Macros

Meld’s Oscillator Macros.

Engines A and B each have two dedicated macro knobs, which change along with the oscillator type
selected. All four of the oscillator macro knobs can be assigned to a MIDI controller for live
performance or to the LFO device for automated modulation. They can also be modulated internally,
using the Modulation Matrix.

The Basic Shapes oscillator has two macro knobs, Shape and Tone. Shape morphs the oscillator’s
waveform between a sine, triangle, saw, and square wave. Tone changes the pulse width of the
source wave.

The Dual Basic Shapes oscillator has two macro knobs, Shape and Detune. Shape morphs the
oscillator’s waveform through sine, triangle, saw, and square wave shapes. Detune adds a copy of
this initial wave and detunes it.

The Noisy Shapes oscillator has two macro knobs, Shape and Rough. Shape morphs the oscillator’s
waveform through sine, triangle, saw, and square wave shapes. Rough adds noise distortion to this
source wave.

The Square Sync oscillator has two macro knobs, Freq 1 and Freq 2. These two controls change the
frequencies of the oscillator’s two synced square waves.

The Square 5th oscillator has two macro knobs, 5th Amt and P Width. 5th Amt morphs the oscillator’s
initial square wave to a second square wave that is a perfect fifth above it. P Width changes the pulse
width of the square wave being generated.

The Sub oscillator has two macro knobs, Tone and Aux. Tone morphs the oscillator’s initial sine wave
into a square wave. Aux adds a lower subharmonic sine wave to the initial sine wave being
generated.

The Swarm Sine, Swarm Triangle, Swarm Saw, and Swarm Square oscillators have two macro knobs,
Motion and Spacing. Motion adds modulation to the wave swarm being produced. Spacing fades
between increasingly complex chords as the amount applied is increased.

The Harmonic Fm oscillator has two macro knobs, Amount and Ratio, which change the modulation
amount and ratio in the frequency modulation algorithm.

The Fold Fm oscillator has two macro knobs, Amount and Shape. Amount changes the modulation
amount in the frequency modulation algorithm and Shape changes the shape of its carrier wave.

The Squelch oscillator has two macro knobs, Amount and Feedback. Amount changes the modulation
depth of the frequency modulation algorithm, and Feedback changes the amount of signal being fed
back into the device.

The Simple Fm oscillator has two macro knobs, Amount and Ratio, which change the modulation
amount and the depth in the frequency modulation algorithm, respectively.

The Chip oscillator has two macro knobs, Tone and Rate. Tone changes the oscillator’s pitch and pulse
width. Rate changes the speed of the chip interval being used.

The Shepard’s Pi oscillator has two macro knobs, Rate and Width. Rate changes the speed and
direction of the oscillator. Values 0.0 through 49.9 produce falling movements, and values 50.1
through 100.0 produce ascending movements. At 50.0, no movement is produced. Width changes
the number of octaves being used by the oscillator.

The Tarp oscillator has two macro knobs, Decay and Tone, which change the algorithm’s decay
amount and tonality.

The Extratone oscillator has two macro knobs, Pitch and Env Amount, which change the oscillator’s
pitch and envelope behavior.

The Noise Loop oscillator has two macro knobs, Rate and Fade. Rate sets the rate at which fragments
of different noise loops occur. At higher values, the oscillator produces noise. Fade dials in the grain
or roughness of the noise.

The Filtered Noise oscillator has two macro knobs, Freq and Width, which change the oscillator’s filter
frequency and width.

The Bitgrunge oscillator has two macro knobs, Freq and Mult. Freq adjusts the frequency of the square
wave being produced. Mult adjusts the number of sub-octaves being generated in relation to this
initial square wave. At its maximum setting, no sub-octaves are generated. At its minimum, a large
number of sub-octaves is generated.

The Crackle oscillator has two macro knobs, Density and Intensity. Density sets the average rate of
crackles being produced. Intensity adjusts the distribution of loudness and brightness within the
crackles.

The Rain oscillator has two macro knobs, Tone and Rate. Tone sets the resonance of the raindrop and
wind sounds being generated. This makes the oscillator tonal and dependent on the notes you play.
Rate sets the density of raindrop sounds being generated.

The Bubble oscillator has two macro knobs, Density and Spread. Density sets the rate of bubble
generation and Spread sets the randomness of the size of the bubbles being produced.

28.8.4 Envelopes Tab

Engine A’s Amplitude Envelope.

Each of Meld’s envelopes has Attack, Decay, Sustain, and Release controls. These can be adjusted by
sliding the numerical values at the bottom of the Envelope section up or down, entering a value using
your computer keyboard, or clicking and dragging the breakpoints on the envelope’s graphical
display.

Attack, Decay, and Release Slope controls are marked in red, and can be adjusted by sliding the
numerical values at the bottom of the section, entering a value using your computer keyboard, or
clicking and dragging the diamonds between the breakpoints in the Envelope section’s graphical
displays.

Amplitude and Modulation envelopes have three Envelope Loop Modes. In Trigger mode, all
segments of the envelope play once a note is received, while the selected Sustain level is ignored. In
Loop mode, the entire envelope is looped without holding the selected Sustain level. In AD Loop
mode, only the Attack and Decay portions of the envelope are looped.

The Modulation envelope has one additional set of parameters: the Initial, Peak, and Final levels.
These parameters set the position of the envelope when it is triggered and released, which offers more
flexibility for modulation.

Initial and Final Parameters in Engine B’s Modulation Envelope.

Activating the Link Envelopes button links each engine’s Amplitude and Modulation envelopes. This is
useful for having Meld’s two engines function as a single instrument.

28.8.5 LFOs Tab

Engine A’s LFOs.

Each of Meld’s engines has two dedicated LFOs. The rates of LFO 1 and LFO 2 can be set in Hertz or
tempo-synced, and a Phase Offset slider offsets each LFO’s phase. When Retrigger is enabled, the
LFO restarts at the position set by the Phase Offset slider.

LFO 1’s waveform can be selected from the LFO 1 Type drop-down menu, which provides six
waveform types to choose from: Basic Shapes, Ramp, Wander, Alternate, Euclid, and Pulsate. These
waveforms can be further shaped using the LFO’s Rate knob and the two macro knobs adjacent to it,
which change depending on the waveform type selected.

LFO 1 can also be modulated in the LFO 1 FX panel. The FX1 and FX2 drop-down menus each have
seventeen effect types that can be serially applied to LFO 1. The degree of the effect applied can be
changed via its corresponding macro knob. Note that LFO 1 and LFO1 FX can be used as
independent modulation sources in Meld’s Modulation Matrix.

LFO 2 provides six classic waveform types to choose from: Sine, Tri, Saw Up, Saw Down, Rectangle,
Random S&H. LFO 2 can be used as a third independent modulation source in Meld’s Modulation
Matrix.
