---
id: 26.30.2
title: "Bit Reduction"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.30.2 Bit Reduction

The bit reduction controls are available on the right side of the device. Bit reduction decreases the
number of bits used to represent the digital signal, reducing dynamic range while adding distortion
and noise. At extreme settings, all original dynamics are lost and sounds are reduced to jagged
square waves.

The Bits control reduces the number of bits being used. The value shown represents the number of bits
used to encode the output signal. Reducing this value increases noise and distortion while reducing
dynamic range.

Shape varies the shape of the quantizer’s characteristic curve. Higher values produce a finer
resolution for smaller amplitudes, meaning that subtle signal components will be less affected than
louder ones. The total amount of distortion produced with different Shape settings will depend upon
the dynamic range of the input signal.

Enabling the DC Shift button applies an amplitude offset before the quantization process. This
significantly changes the sound of the quantization distortion, especially when Bits is set to lower
values, increasing volume and adding crunch!

The Dry/Wet control adjusts the balance between the processed and dry signals. Set it to 100%
when using Redux in a return track.

26.31 Resonators

The Resonators Effect.

This device consists of five parallel resonators that superimpose a tonal character on the input source.
It can produce sounds resembling anything from plucked strings to vocoder-like effects. The resonators
are tuned in semitones, providing a musical way of adjusting them. The first resonator defines the root
pitch and the four others are tuned relative to this pitch in musical intervals.

The input signal passes first through a filter, and then into the resonators. There are four input filter
types to select from: low-pass, band-pass, high-pass and notch. The input filter frequency can be
adjusted with the Frequency parameter.

The first resonator is fed with both the left and right input channels, while the second and fourth
resonators are dedicated to the left channel, and the third and fifth to the right channel.

The Note parameter defines the root pitch of all the resonators ranging from C-1 to C5. It can also be
detuned in cents using the Fine parameter. The Decay parameter lets you adjust the amount of time it
takes for the resonators to be silent after getting an input signal. The longer the decay time, the more
tonal the result will be, similar to the behavior of an undamped piano string. As with a real string, the
decay time depends on the pitch, so low notes will last longer than higher ones. The Const switch
holds the decay time constant regardless of the actual pitch.

Resonators provides two different resonation modes. Mode A provides a more realistic sounding
resonation, while Mode B offers an effect that is especially interesting when Resonator I’s Note
parameter is set to lower pitches.

The brightness of the resulting sound can be adjusted using the Color control.

All of the resonators have an On/Off switch and a Gain control. A resonator that is turned off does
not need CPU. Turning off the first resonator does not affect the other ones.

Resonators II through V follow the Note parameter defined in Resonator I, but they can each be
individually transposed +/- 24 semitones using the Pitch controls and detuned in cents using the
Detune controls.

The output section features the obligatory Dry/Wet control and a Width parameter that affects only
the wet signal and blends the left and right outputs of Resonators II-V into a mono signal if set to zero.
