---
id: 9.1.4
title: "Clip Tempo Followers and Leaders"
chapter: 9
---
# 9.1.4 Clip Tempo Followers and Leaders

By default, warped clips follow the Set’s tempo; however, clips in the Arrangement View can be set as
tempo leaders via the Lead/Follow toggle in the Clip View’s Audio Utilities panel.

Warped Clips Follow the Set’s Tempo by Default.

When a clip is set to Lead, the Set plays back at the tempo determined by the clip’s Warp Markers.
This lets you sync the Set to the tempo of leader clips, which will therefore be played as if they were
unwarped. Additionally, the tempo field in the Control Bar is deactivated.

Switch the Lead/Follow Toggle to Lead to Play the Clip’s Original Tempo.

Any number of clips can be set as tempo leaders, but only one clip at a time can actually determine
the tempo. When multiple clips on different tracks are leaders, the tempo of the currently playing clip
on the bottom-most track will take precedence.

Tempo automation is automatically created to track the changes between the clips’ tempos and the
Set’s tempo. This automation is visible in the Main track but is not editable. When leader clips are
rearranged in the Arrangement, the resulting automation is also moved. To keep and edit the
automation changes, you can use the Unfollow Tempo Automation option in the tempo field’s context
menu. This will switch all leader clips to followers, and the automation in the Main track will become
editable.

Unfollow the Tempo Automation to Make It Editable.

Automation from clip tempo leaders will override the tempo from any audio input being synced via
Tempo Follower.

Note that when Live’s EXT switch is enabled, the Lead/Follow toggle is deactivated.
