---
id: 9.1
title: "Tempo"
chapter: 9
---
# 9.1 Tempo

9.1.1 Setting the Tempo

The Control Bar’s Tempo Field.

The Control Bar’s tempo field lets you adjust the playback tempo of your Live Set. You can even
automate the tempo to create smooth or sudden tempo changes along the song timeline.

The tempo field displays values for both the coarse tempo in BPM and the fine tempo in hundredths of
a BPM. These values can be key or MIDI mapped individually, which is useful for precise tempo
changes during live performances.

Additionally, there are several ways to sync the tempo between Live and external sources: you can set
up hardware to follow along with Live’s tempo, or vice versa, using MIDI Clock or Link, or set up Live’s
tempo to sync with an external audio source using Tempo Follower. Please refer to the Synchronizing
with Link, Tempo Follower, and MIDI chapter for more details.

9.1.2 Tapping the Tempo

The Tap Button.

Apart from setting a tempo using numeric values, you can also use the Tap Tempo button to set the
tempo with mouse clicks or computer key taps.

You can click the Tap Tempo button once every beat to have the tempo of the Live Set follow the
tempo of your clicking.

To use a computer key to set the tempo instead of clicks, you can map a key to the Tap Tempo button
using Key Map Mode:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Click the Key switch in the Control Bar to enable Key Map Mode.
Select the Tap Tempo button.
Press the key on your keyboard that you want to use for tapping.
Click the Key switch again to leave Key Map Mode.

You can now use the mapped key for tapping the tempo.

The Key Map Mode Switch.

Alternatively, you can assign the Tap Tempo button to a MIDI note or controller, such as a footswitch
pedal, using MIDI Map Mode.

Live will respond to tap tempo changes immediately; however, the more you tap, the more accurate
the detected tempo result will be.

If the Start Playback with Tap Tempo option is enabled in the Record, Warp & Launch Settings, you
can also use tapping to trigger playback. When using a 4/4 time signature, it takes four taps to start
song playback at the tapped tempo.

When using tapping to start transport, the playback position of any apps that are connected via Link
will be synced automatically. This ensures that those apps remain tempo-synced and correctly aligned
within the current musical phrase.

9.1.3 Nudging the Tempo

The Phase Nudge Up/Down Buttons.

While Live can be easily synchronized via Link or to external MIDI devices, you may sometimes need
to align a Set with external sources that aren’t locked to a single tempo, such as live musicians or
turntables. As long as your Set’s tempo roughly matches the external source, you can use the Phase
Nudge Up/Down buttons to temporarily speed up or slow down Live’s playback to match any tempo
changes. As with the Tap Tempo button, the Phase Nudge buttons can be key or MIDI mapped for
hands-on control.

9.1.4 Clip Tempo Followers and Leaders

By default, warped clips follow the Set’s tempo; however, clips in the Arrangement View can be set as
tempo leaders via the Lead/Follow toggle in the Clip View’s Audio Utilities panel.

Warped Clips Follow the Set’s Tempo by Default.

When a clip is set to Lead, the Set plays back at the tempo determined by the clip’s Warp Markers.
This lets you sync the Set to the tempo of leader clips, which will therefore be played as if they were
unwarped. Additionally, the tempo field in the Control Bar is deactivated.

Switch the Lead/Follow Toggle to Lead to Play the Clip’s Original Tempo.

Any number of clips can be set as tempo leaders, but only one clip at a time can actually determine
the tempo. When multiple clips on different tracks are leaders, the tempo of the currently playing clip
on the bottom-most track will take precedence.

Tempo automation is automatically created to track the changes between the clips’ tempos and the
Set’s tempo. This automation is visible in the Main track but is not editable. When leader clips are
rearranged in the Arrangement, the resulting automation is also moved. To keep and edit the
automation changes, you can use the Unfollow Tempo Automation option in the tempo field’s context
menu. This will switch all leader clips to followers, and the automation in the Main track will become
editable.

Unfollow the Tempo Automation to Make It Editable.

Automation from clip tempo leaders will override the tempo from any audio input being synced via
Tempo Follower.

Note that when Live’s EXT switch is enabled, the Lead/Follow toggle is deactivated.
