---
id: 28.9.10.3
title: "Pitch Shell and Display"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.10.3 Pitch Shell and Display

Pitch Envelope On — This turns the pitch envelope on and off. Turning it off if it is unused saves some
CPU power.

Pitch Envelope Amount (Pitch Env) — This sets the overall intensity of the pitch envelope. A value of
100% means that the pitch change is exactly defined by the pitch envelope’s levels. A value of -100%
inverts the sign of the pitch envelope levels.

Spread — If Spread is turned up, the synthesizer uses two detuned voices per note, one each on the
left and right stereo channels, to create chorusing sounds. Spread is a very CPU-intensive effect.

Transpose — This is the global transposition setting for the instrument. Changing this parameter will
affect notes that are already playing.

Pitch Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — This parameter exists for filter, pitch, LFO and volume
envelopes. It is therefore listed in the section on envelopes.

Glide (G) — With Glide on, notes will slide from the pitch of the last played note to their played pitch.
Note that all envelopes are not retriggered in this case if notes are being played legato.

Glide Time (Time) — This is the time it takes for a note to slide from the pitch of the last played note to
its final pitch when Glide is activated. This setting has no effect if Glide is not activated.

Pitch Envelope to Osc (Destination A-D) — The pitch envelope affects the frequency of the respective
oscillator if this is turned on.

Pitch Envelope to LFO (Destination LFO) — The pitch envelope affects the frequency of the LFO if this is
turned on.

Pitch Envelope Amount A — This sets the intensity of the pitch envelope’s modulation of the oscillators
and LFO.

Pitch Envelope Destination B — This sets the second modulation destination for the pitch envelope.

Pitch Envelope Amount B — This sets the intensity of the pitch envelope’s modulation of the secondary
target.
