---
id: 28.9.3
title: "LFO Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.3 LFO Section

Operator’s LFO Display and Shell Parameters.

The LFO in Operator can practically be thought of as a fifth oscillator. It runs at audio rates, and it
modulates the frequency of the other oscillators. It is possible to switch LFO modulation on or off for
each individual oscillator (and the filter) using the Dest. A buttons in the LFO’s display. The intensity of
the LFO’s modulation of these targets can be adjusted by the Dest. A slider. The LFO can also be
turned off entirely if it is unused.

The Dest. B chooser allows the LFO to modulate an additional parameter. The intensity of this
modulation is determined by the Dest. B slider.

The LFO offers a choice of classic LFO waveforms, sample and hold (S&H), and noise. Sample and
hold uses random numbers chosen at the rate of the LFO, creating the random steps useful for typical
retro-futuristic sci-fi sounds. The noise waveform is simply band-pass filtered noise.

Tip: FM synthesis can be used to create fantastic percussion sounds, and using the LFO with the noise
waveform is the key to great hi-hats and snares.

The frequency of the LFO is determined by the LFO Rate control in the shell, as well as the low/high/
sync setting of the adjacent LFO Range chooser. The frequency of the LFO can follow note pitch, be
fixed or be set to something in between. This is defined by the Rate < Key parameter in the LFO’s
display. With the R (Retrigger) button enabled, the LFO restarts at the same position in its phase each
time a note is triggered. With R disabled, the LFO is free-running.

The overall intensity of the LFO is set by the LFO Amount control in the shell. This parameter scales both
the Dest. A and B amounts and can be modulated by note velocity via the display’s Amt < Vel control.
The LFO’s intensity is also affected by its envelope.
