---
id: 28.9.10.6
title: "Oscillators A-D Shell and Display"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.10.6 Oscillators A-D Shell and Display

Osc On — This turns the oscillator on and off.

Osc Coarse Frequency (Coarse) — The relationship between oscillator frequency and note pitch is
defined by the Coarse and Fine parameters. Coarse sets the ratio in whole numbers, creating a
harmonic relationship.

Osc Fine Frequency (Fine) — The relationship between oscillator frequency and note pitch is defined
by the Coarse and Fine parameters. Fine sets the ratio in fractions of whole numbers, creating an
inharmonic relationship.

Osc Fixed Frequency On (Fixed) — In Fixed Mode, oscillators do not respond to note pitch but
instead play a fixed frequency.

Osc Fixed Frequency (Freq) — This is the frequency of the oscillator in Hertz. This frequency is
constant, regardless of note pitch.

Osc Fixed Multiplier (Multi) — This is used to adjust the range of the fixed frequency. Multiply this
value with the value of the oscillator’s Freq knob to get actual frequency in Hz.

Osc Output Level (Level) — This sets the output level of the oscillator. If this oscillator is modulating
another, its level has significant influence on the resulting timbre. Higher levels usually create bright
and/or noisy sounds.

Envelope / Oscillator Switches — These switches toggle the display between the oscillator’s envelope
and its harmonics editor.

16/32/64 — These switches set the number of partials that are available for user editing.

Osc Waveform (Wave) — Choose from a collection of carefully selected waveforms. You can then
edit them via the harmonics editor.

Osc Feedback (Feedback) — An oscillator can modulate itself if it is not modulated by another
oscillator. The modulation is dependent not only on the setting of the feedback control but also on the
oscillator level and the envelope. Higher feedback creates a more complex resulting waveform.

Osc Phase (Phase) — This sets the initial phase of the oscillator. The range represents one whole cycle.

Retrigger (R) — When enabled, the oscillator restarts at the same position in its phase each time a note
is triggered. With R disabled, the oscillator is free-running.

Repeat — Higher harmonics can be generated by repeating the drawn partials with a gradual
fadeout, based on the settings in the Repeat chooser. Low Repeat values result in a brighter sound,
while higher values result in more high-end roll-off and a more prominent fundamental. With Repeat
off, partials above the 16th, 32nd or 64th harmonic are truncated.

Osc Frequency < Velocity (Osc < Vel) — The frequency of an oscillator can be modulated by note
velocity. Positive values raise the oscillator’s pitch with greater velocities, and negative values lower it.

Osc Freq < Vel Quantized (Q) — This allows quantizing the effect of the Frequency < Velocity
parameter. If activated, the sonic result is the same as manually changing the Coarse parameter for
each note.

Volume Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — This parameter exists for filter, pitch, LFO and
volume envelopes. It is therefore listed in the section on envelopes.

Osc Output Level < Velocity (Vel) — This defines how much the oscillator’s level depends upon note
velocity. Applying this to modulating oscillators creates velocity-dependent timbres.

Osc Output Level < Key (Key) — This defines how much the oscillator’s level depends upon note pitch.
The center point for this function is C3.
