---
id: 28.9.10.1
title: "Global Shell and Display"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.10.1 Global Shell and Display

Time — This is a global control for all envelope rates.

Tone — Operator is capable of producing timbres with very high frequencies, which can sometimes
lead to aliasing artifacts. The Tone setting controls the high frequency content of sounds. Higher
settings are typically brighter but also more likely to produce aliasing.

Volume — This sets the overall volume of the instrument.

Algorithm — An oscillator can modulate other oscillators, be modulated by other oscillators, or both.
The algorithm defines the connections between the oscillators and therefore has a significant impact
on the sound that is created.

Voices — This sets the maximum number of notes that can sound simultaneously. If more notes than
available voices are requested, the oldest notes will be cut off.

Retrigger (R) — When enabled, notes that are enabled will be retriggered, rather than generating an
additional voice.

Interpolation — This toggles the interpolation algorithm of the oscillators and the LFO. If turned off,
some timbres will sound more rough, especially the noise waveform. Turning this off will also save
some CPU power.

Antialias — This toggles Operator’s high-quality antialias mode, which helps to minimize high-
frequency distortion. Disabling this modes reduces the CPU load.

Time < Key — The rates of all envelopes can be controlled by note pitch. If the global Time < Key
parameter is set to higher values, the envelopes run faster when higher notes are played.

Pitch Bend Range (PB Range) — This defines the effect of MIDI pitch bend messages.

Pan — Use this to adjust the panorama of each note. This is especially useful when modulated with
clip envelopes.

Pan < Key (Key) — If Pan < Key is set to higher values, low notes will pan relatively more to the left
channel, and higher notes to the right. Typically this is used for piano-like sounds.

Pan < Random (Rnd) — This defines the extent to which notes are randomly distributed between the
left and right channels.
