---
id: 28.9.10
title: "The Complete Parameter List"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.10 The Complete Parameter List

The function of each Operator parameter is explained in the forthcoming sections. Remember that you
can also access explanations of controls in Live (including those belonging to Operator) directly from
the software by placing the mouse over the control and reading the text that appears in the Info View.
Parameters in this list are grouped into sections based on where they appear in Operator.

28.9.10.1 Global Shell and Display

Time — This is a global control for all envelope rates.

Tone — Operator is capable of producing timbres with very high frequencies, which can sometimes
lead to aliasing artifacts. The Tone setting controls the high frequency content of sounds. Higher
settings are typically brighter but also more likely to produce aliasing.

Volume — This sets the overall volume of the instrument.

Algorithm — An oscillator can modulate other oscillators, be modulated by other oscillators, or both.
The algorithm defines the connections between the oscillators and therefore has a significant impact
on the sound that is created.

Voices — This sets the maximum number of notes that can sound simultaneously. If more notes than
available voices are requested, the oldest notes will be cut off.

Retrigger (R) — When enabled, notes that are enabled will be retriggered, rather than generating an
additional voice.

Interpolation — This toggles the interpolation algorithm of the oscillators and the LFO. If turned off,
some timbres will sound more rough, especially the noise waveform. Turning this off will also save
some CPU power.

Antialias — This toggles Operator’s high-quality antialias mode, which helps to minimize high-
frequency distortion. Disabling this modes reduces the CPU load.

Time < Key — The rates of all envelopes can be controlled by note pitch. If the global Time < Key
parameter is set to higher values, the envelopes run faster when higher notes are played.

Pitch Bend Range (PB Range) — This defines the effect of MIDI pitch bend messages.

Pan — Use this to adjust the panorama of each note. This is especially useful when modulated with
clip envelopes.

Pan < Key (Key) — If Pan < Key is set to higher values, low notes will pan relatively more to the left
channel, and higher notes to the right. Typically this is used for piano-like sounds.

Pan < Random (Rnd) — This defines the extent to which notes are randomly distributed between the
left and right channels.

28.9.10.2 Modulation Targets

These modulation targets are available as MIDI routing destinations in the global display, and also as
modulation targets for the LFO and pitch envelope.

Off — Disabled this controller’s modulation routing.

OSC Volume A-D — Modulates the volume of the selected oscillator.

OSC Crossfade A/C — Crossfades the volumes of the A and C oscillators based on the value of the
modulation source.

OSC Crossfade B/D — Crossfades the volumes of the B and D oscillators based on the value of the
modulation source.

OSC Feedback — Modulates the amount of feedback for all oscillators. Note that feedback is only
applied to oscillators that are not modulated by other oscillators.

OSC Fixed Frequency — Modulates the pitch of all oscillators that are in Fixed Frequency mode.

FM Drive — Modulates the volume of all oscillators which are modulating other oscillators, thus
changing the timbre.

Filter Frequency — Modulates the cutoff frequency of the filter.

Filter Q (Legacy) — Modulates the resonance of the filter when using the legacy filter types.

Filter Res — Modulates the resonance of the filter when using the updated filter types.

Filter Morph — Modulates the position in the filter’s morph cycle (only has an effect for the Morph
filter type.)

Filter Drive — Modulates the amount of the Drive (not available when the Morph filter is selected.)

Filter Envelope Amount — Modulates the filter’s envelope intensity.

Shaper Drive — Modulates the amount of gain applied to the filter’s waveshaper.

LFO Rate — Modulates the rate of the LFO.

LFO Amount — Modulates the intensity of the LFO.

Pitch Envelope Amount — Modulates the intensity of the pitch envelope.

Volume — Modulates Operator’s global output volume.

Panorama — Modulates the position of Operator’s output in the stereo field.

Tone — Modulates the global Tone parameter.

Time — Modulates the global control for all envelope rates.

28.9.10.3 Pitch Shell and Display

Pitch Envelope On — This turns the pitch envelope on and off. Turning it off if it is unused saves some
CPU power.

Pitch Envelope Amount (Pitch Env) — This sets the overall intensity of the pitch envelope. A value of
100% means that the pitch change is exactly defined by the pitch envelope’s levels. A value of -100%
inverts the sign of the pitch envelope levels.

Spread — If Spread is turned up, the synthesizer uses two detuned voices per note, one each on the
left and right stereo channels, to create chorusing sounds. Spread is a very CPU-intensive effect.

Transpose — This is the global transposition setting for the instrument. Changing this parameter will
affect notes that are already playing.

Pitch Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — This parameter exists for filter, pitch, LFO and volume
envelopes. It is therefore listed in the section on envelopes.

Glide (G) — With Glide on, notes will slide from the pitch of the last played note to their played pitch.
Note that all envelopes are not retriggered in this case if notes are being played legato.

Glide Time (Time) — This is the time it takes for a note to slide from the pitch of the last played note to
its final pitch when Glide is activated. This setting has no effect if Glide is not activated.

Pitch Envelope to Osc (Destination A-D) — The pitch envelope affects the frequency of the respective
oscillator if this is turned on.

Pitch Envelope to LFO (Destination LFO) — The pitch envelope affects the frequency of the LFO if this is
turned on.

Pitch Envelope Amount A — This sets the intensity of the pitch envelope’s modulation of the oscillators
and LFO.

Pitch Envelope Destination B — This sets the second modulation destination for the pitch envelope.

Pitch Envelope Amount B — This sets the intensity of the pitch envelope’s modulation of the secondary
target.

28.9.10.4 Filter Shell and Display

Filter On — This turns the filter on and off. Turning it off when it is unused saves CPU power.

Filter Type — This chooser selects from low-pass, high-pass, band-pass, notch, and Morph filters.

Circuit Type — This chooser selects from a variety of circuit types that emulate the character of classic
analog synthesizers.

Filter Frequency (Freq) — This defines the center or cutoff frequency of the filter. Note that the resulting
frequency may also be modulated by note velocity and by the filter envelope.

Filter Resonance (Res) — This defines the resonance around the filter frequency of the low-pass and
high-pass filters, and the width of the band-pass and notch filters.

Envelope / Filter Switches — These switches toggle the display between the filter’s envelope and its
frequency response.

Filter Frequency < Velocity (Freq < Vel) — Filter frequency is modulated by note velocity according to
this setting.

Filter Frequency < Key (Freq < Key) — Filter frequency is modulated by note pitch according to this
setting. A value of 100% means that the frequency doubles per octave. The center point for this
function is C3.

Filter Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — This parameter exists for filter, pitch, LFO and volume
envelopes. It is therefore listed in the section on envelopes.

Filter Frequency < Envelope (Envelope) — Filter frequency is modulated by the filter envelope
according to this setting. A value of 100% means that the envelope can create a maximum frequency
shift of approximately 9 octaves.

Filter Drive (Flt. Drive) — Applies additional input gain to the signal before it enters the filter.

Morph — Controls the position of the Morph filter in its morph cycle.

Shaper — This chooser selects the curve for the filter’s waveshaper.

Shaper Drive (Shp. Drive) — This boosts or attenuates the signal level being sent to the waveshaper.

Dry/Wet — This adjusts the balance between the dry signal and the signal processed by the
waveshaper.

28.9.10.5 LFO Shell and Display

LFO On — This turns the LFO (low-frequency oscillator) on and off. Turning it off when it is unused
saves some CPU power.

LFO Waveform — Select from among several typical LFO waveforms. Sample and Hold (S&H)
creates random steps, and Noise supplies band-pass filtered noise. All waveforms are band-limited to
avoid unwanted clicks.

LFO Range — The LFO covers an extreme frequency range. Choose Low for a range from 50 seconds
to 30 Hz, or Hi for 8 Hz to 12 kHz. Sync causes the LFO’s rate to be synced to your Set’s tempo. Due
to the possible high frequencies, the LFO can also function as a fifth oscillator.

Retrigger (R) — When enabled, the LFO restarts at the same position in its phase each time a note is
triggered. With R disabled, the LFO is free-running.

LFO Rate (Rate) — This sets the rate of the LFO. The actual frequency also depends on the setting of
the LFO Range and the LFO Rate < Key controls.

LFO Amount (Amount) — This sets the overall intensity of the LFO. Note that the actual effect also
depends on the LFO envelope.

LFO to Osc (Destination A-D) — The LFO modulates the frequency of the respective oscillator if this is
turned on.

LFO to Filter Cutoff Frequency (Destination FIL) — The LFO modulates the cutoff frequency of the filter if
this is turned on.

LFO Amount A — This sets the intensity of the LFO’s modulation of the oscillators and filter.

LFO Destination B — This sets the second modulation destination for the LFO.

LFO Amount B — This sets the intensity of the LFO’s modulation of the secondary target.

LFO Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — This parameter exists for filter, pitch, LFO and volume
envelopes. It is therefore listed in the section on envelopes.

LFO Rate < Key (Rate < Key) — The LFO’s frequency can be a function of note pitch. If this is set to
100%, the LFO will double its frequency per octave, functioning like a normal oscillator.

LFO Amount < Velocity (Amt < Vel) — This setting adjusts modulation of the LFO intensity by note
velocity.

28.9.10.6 Oscillators A-D Shell and Display

Osc On — This turns the oscillator on and off.

Osc Coarse Frequency (Coarse) — The relationship between oscillator frequency and note pitch is
defined by the Coarse and Fine parameters. Coarse sets the ratio in whole numbers, creating a
harmonic relationship.

Osc Fine Frequency (Fine) — The relationship between oscillator frequency and note pitch is defined
by the Coarse and Fine parameters. Fine sets the ratio in fractions of whole numbers, creating an
inharmonic relationship.

Osc Fixed Frequency On (Fixed) — In Fixed Mode, oscillators do not respond to note pitch but
instead play a fixed frequency.

Osc Fixed Frequency (Freq) — This is the frequency of the oscillator in Hertz. This frequency is
constant, regardless of note pitch.

Osc Fixed Multiplier (Multi) — This is used to adjust the range of the fixed frequency. Multiply this
value with the value of the oscillator’s Freq knob to get actual frequency in Hz.

Osc Output Level (Level) — This sets the output level of the oscillator. If this oscillator is modulating
another, its level has significant influence on the resulting timbre. Higher levels usually create bright
and/or noisy sounds.

Envelope / Oscillator Switches — These switches toggle the display between the oscillator’s envelope
and its harmonics editor.

16/32/64 — These switches set the number of partials that are available for user editing.

Osc Waveform (Wave) — Choose from a collection of carefully selected waveforms. You can then
edit them via the harmonics editor.

Osc Feedback (Feedback) — An oscillator can modulate itself if it is not modulated by another
oscillator. The modulation is dependent not only on the setting of the feedback control but also on the
oscillator level and the envelope. Higher feedback creates a more complex resulting waveform.

Osc Phase (Phase) — This sets the initial phase of the oscillator. The range represents one whole cycle.

Retrigger (R) — When enabled, the oscillator restarts at the same position in its phase each time a note
is triggered. With R disabled, the oscillator is free-running.

Repeat — Higher harmonics can be generated by repeating the drawn partials with a gradual
fadeout, based on the settings in the Repeat chooser. Low Repeat values result in a brighter sound,
while higher values result in more high-end roll-off and a more prominent fundamental. With Repeat
off, partials above the 16th, 32nd or 64th harmonic are truncated.

Osc Frequency < Velocity (Osc < Vel) — The frequency of an oscillator can be modulated by note
velocity. Positive values raise the oscillator’s pitch with greater velocities, and negative values lower it.

Osc Freq < Vel Quantized (Q) — This allows quantizing the effect of the Frequency < Velocity
parameter. If activated, the sonic result is the same as manually changing the Coarse parameter for
each note.

Volume Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — This parameter exists for filter, pitch, LFO and
volume envelopes. It is therefore listed in the section on envelopes.

Osc Output Level < Velocity (Vel) — This defines how much the oscillator’s level depends upon note
velocity. Applying this to modulating oscillators creates velocity-dependent timbres.

Osc Output Level < Key (Key) — This defines how much the oscillator’s level depends upon note pitch.
The center point for this function is C3.

28.9.10.7 Envelope Display

Envelope Attack Time (Attack) — This sets the time it takes for a note to reach the peak level, starting
from the initial level. For the oscillator envelopes, the shape of this segment of the envelope is linear.
For the filter and pitch envelopes, the shape of the segment can be adjusted.

Envelope Decay Time (Decay) — This sets the time it takes for a note to reach the sustain level from the
peak level. For the oscillator envelopes, the shape of this segment of the envelope is exponential. For
the filter and pitch envelopes, the shape of the segment can be adjusted.

Envelope Release Time (Release) — This is the time it takes for a note to reach the end level after a
Note Off message is received. For the oscillator envelopes, this level is always -inf dB and the shape
of the segment is exponential. For the filter and pitch envelopes, the end level is determined by the
End Level parameter and the shape of the segment can be adjusted. This envelope segment will begin
at the value of the envelope at the moment the Note Off message occurs, regardless of which
segment is currently active.

Envelope Initial Level (Initial) — This sets the initial value of the envelope.

Envelope Peak Level (Peak) — This is the peak level at the end of the note attack.

Envelope Sustain Level (Sustain) — This is the sustain level at the end of the note decay. The envelope
will stay at this level until note release unless it is in Loop, Sync or Beat Mode.

Envelope End Level (End) — (LFO, Filter and pitch envelopes only) This is the level reached at the end
of the Release stage.

Envelope Loop Mode (Loop) — If this is set to Loop, the envelope will start again after the end of the
decay segment. If set to Beat or Sync, it will start again after a given beat-time. In Sync Mode, this
behavior will be quantized to song time. In Trigger mode, the envelope ignores Note Off.

Envelope Beat/Sync Rate (Repeat) — The envelope will be retriggered after this amount of beat-time,
as long as it is still on. When retriggered, the envelope will move at the given attack rate from the
current level to the peak level.

Envelope Loop Time (Time) — If a note is still on after the end of the decay/sustain segment, the
envelope will start again from its initial value. The time it takes to move from the sustain level to the
initial value is defined by this parameter.

Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — Envelope segments will be modulated by note velocity as
defined by this setting. This is especially interesting if the envelopes are looping. Note that this
modulation does not influence the beat-time in Beat or Sync Modes, but the envelope segments
themselves.

The filter and pitch envelopes also provide parameters that adjust the slope of their envelope
segments. Positive slope values cause the envelope to move quickly at the beginning, then slower.
Negative slope values cause the envelope to remain flat for longer, then move faster at the end. A
slope of zero is linear; the envelope will move at the same rate throughout the segment.

Attack Slope (A.Slope) — Adjusts the shape of the Attack envelope segment.

Decay Slope (D.Slope) — Adjusts the shape of the Decay envelope segment.

Release Slope (R.Slope) — Adjusts the shape of the Release envelope segment.

28.9.10.8 Context Menu Options for Operator

Certain operations and parameters in Operator are only available via the context menu. These
include:

Copy commands for Oscillators — The context menu of the oscillator’s shell and envelope display
provide options for copying parameters between oscillators.

Envelope commands — The context menu for all envelope displays provide options to quickly set all
envelope levels to maximum, minimum, or middle values.

Harmonics editor commands — The context menu for the harmonics editor can restrict partial drawing
to even or odd harmonics and toggle normalization of an oscillator’s output level. There is also a
command to export the waveform as an .ams file.

Play By Key — This command, in the context menu for the filter’s Freq control, optimizes the filter for
key tracking by setting the cutoff to 466 Hz and setting the Freq < Key to 100%.

Enable Per-Note Pitch Bend — This option is enabled by default so that Operator responds to per-
note pitch bend changes. If needed, you can deactivate this behavior by deselecting the option in the
device title bar’s context menu.

28.10 Sampler

The Sampler Instrument.

Sampler is a sleek yet formidable multisampling instrument that takes full advantage of Live‘s agile
audio engine. It has been designed from the start to handle multi-gigabyte instrument libraries with
ease, and it imports most common library formats. But with Sampler, playback is only the beginning;
its extensive internal modulation system, which addresses nearly every aspect of its sound, makes it
the natural extension of Live‘s sound-shaping techniques.
