---
id: 28.9.5
title: "Filter Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.5 Filter Section

Operator’s Filter Display and Shell Parameters.

Operator’s filters can be very useful for modifying the sonically rich timbres created by the oscillators.
And, since the oscillators also provide you with the classic waveforms of analog synthesizers, you can
very easily build a subtractive synthesizer with them.

Operator offers a variety of filter types including low-pass, high-pass, band-pass, notch, and a
special Morph filter. Each filter can be switched between 12 and 24 dB slopes as well as a selection
of analog-modeled circuit behaviors developed in conjunction with Cytomic that emulate hardware
filters found on some classic analog synthesizers.

The Clean circuit option is a high-quality, CPU-efficient design that is the same as the filters used in EQ
Eight. This is available for all of the filter types.

The OSR circuit option is a state-variable type with resonance limited by a unique hard-clipping
diode. This is modeled on the filters used in a somewhat rare British monosynth, and is available for all
filter types.

The MS2 circuit option uses a Sallen-Key design and soft clipping to limit resonance. It is modeled on
the filters used in a famous semi-modular Japanese monosynth and is available for the low-pass and
high-pass filters.

The SMP circuit is a custom design not based on any particular hardware. It shares characteristics of
both the MS2 and PRD circuits and is available for the low-pass and high-pass filters.

The PRD circuit uses a ladder design and has no explicit resonance limiting. It is modeled on the filters
used in a legacy dual-oscillator monosynth from the United States and is available for the low-pass
and high-pass filters.

The most important filter parameters are the typical synth controls Frequency and Resonance.
Frequency determines where in the harmonic spectrum the filter is applied; Resonance boosts
frequencies near that point.

When using the low-pass, high-pass, or band-pass filter with any circuit type besides Clean, there is
an additional Drive control that can be used to add gain or distortion to the signal before it enters the
filter.

The Morph filter has an additional Morph control which sweeps the filter type continuously from low-
pass to band-pass to high-pass to notch and back to low-pass.

You can quickly snap the Morph control to a low-pass, band-pass, high-pass, or notch setting via
dedicated options in the context menu of the Morph slider.

The Envelope and Filter buttons in the filter section’s display area toggle between showing the filter
envelope and its frequency response. Filter cutoff frequency and resonance can be adjusted in the
shell or by dragging the filter response curve in the display area. Filter frequency can also be
modulated by the following:

•
•
•
•

Note velocity, via the Freq < Vel control in the filter’s display.
Note pitch, via the Freq < Key control in the filter’s display.
Filter envelope, via the Envelope control in the filter’s display.
LFO, done either by enabling the Dest. A “FIL“ switch in the LFO’s display, or by setting Dest. B
to Filter Freq.

The context menu for the Frequency knob contains an entry called “Play by Key.“ This automatically
configures the filter for optimal key tracking by setting Freq < Key to 100% and setting the cutoff to
466 Hz.

The filter’s signal can be routed through a waveshaper, whose curve type can be selected via the
Shaper chooser. The Shaper Drive (Shp. Drive) slider boosts or attenuates the signal level being sent
to the waveshaper, while the overall balance between the dry and processed signals can be adjusted
with the Dry/Wet control. With this set to 0%, the shaper and shaper drive parameters are bypassed.
