---
id: 28.9.10.7
title: "Envelope Display"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.10.7 Envelope Display

Envelope Attack Time (Attack) — This sets the time it takes for a note to reach the peak level, starting
from the initial level. For the oscillator envelopes, the shape of this segment of the envelope is linear.
For the filter and pitch envelopes, the shape of the segment can be adjusted.

Envelope Decay Time (Decay) — This sets the time it takes for a note to reach the sustain level from the
peak level. For the oscillator envelopes, the shape of this segment of the envelope is exponential. For
the filter and pitch envelopes, the shape of the segment can be adjusted.

Envelope Release Time (Release) — This is the time it takes for a note to reach the end level after a
Note Off message is received. For the oscillator envelopes, this level is always -inf dB and the shape
of the segment is exponential. For the filter and pitch envelopes, the end level is determined by the
End Level parameter and the shape of the segment can be adjusted. This envelope segment will begin
at the value of the envelope at the moment the Note Off message occurs, regardless of which
segment is currently active.

Envelope Initial Level (Initial) — This sets the initial value of the envelope.

Envelope Peak Level (Peak) — This is the peak level at the end of the note attack.

Envelope Sustain Level (Sustain) — This is the sustain level at the end of the note decay. The envelope
will stay at this level until note release unless it is in Loop, Sync or Beat Mode.

Envelope End Level (End) — (LFO, Filter and pitch envelopes only) This is the level reached at the end
of the Release stage.

Envelope Loop Mode (Loop) — If this is set to Loop, the envelope will start again after the end of the
decay segment. If set to Beat or Sync, it will start again after a given beat-time. In Sync Mode, this
behavior will be quantized to song time. In Trigger mode, the envelope ignores Note Off.

Envelope Beat/Sync Rate (Repeat) — The envelope will be retriggered after this amount of beat-time,
as long as it is still on. When retriggered, the envelope will move at the given attack rate from the
current level to the peak level.

Envelope Loop Time (Time) — If a note is still on after the end of the decay/sustain segment, the
envelope will start again from its initial value. The time it takes to move from the sustain level to the
initial value is defined by this parameter.

Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — Envelope segments will be modulated by note velocity as
defined by this setting. This is especially interesting if the envelopes are looping. Note that this
modulation does not influence the beat-time in Beat or Sync Modes, but the envelope segments
themselves.

The filter and pitch envelopes also provide parameters that adjust the slope of their envelope
segments. Positive slope values cause the envelope to move quickly at the beginning, then slower.
Negative slope values cause the envelope to remain flat for longer, then move faster at the end. A
slope of zero is linear; the envelope will move at the same rate throughout the segment.

Attack Slope (A.Slope) — Adjusts the shape of the Attack envelope segment.

Decay Slope (D.Slope) — Adjusts the shape of the Decay envelope segment.

Release Slope (R.Slope) — Adjusts the shape of the Release envelope segment.
