---
id: 28.9.10.8
title: "Context Menu Options for Operator"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.10.8 Context Menu Options for Operator

Certain operations and parameters in Operator are only available via the context menu. These
include:

Copy commands for Oscillators — The context menu of the oscillator’s shell and envelope display
provide options for copying parameters between oscillators.

Envelope commands — The context menu for all envelope displays provide options to quickly set all
envelope levels to maximum, minimum, or middle values.

Harmonics editor commands — The context menu for the harmonics editor can restrict partial drawing
to even or odd harmonics and toggle normalization of an oscillator’s output level. There is also a
command to export the waveform as an .ams file.

Play By Key — This command, in the context menu for the filter’s Freq control, optimizes the filter for
key tracking by setting the cutoff to 466 Hz and setting the Freq < Key to 100%.

Enable Per-Note Pitch Bend — This option is enabled by default so that Operator responds to per-
note pitch bend changes. If needed, you can deactivate this behavior by deselecting the option in the
device title bar’s context menu.

28.10 Sampler

The Sampler Instrument.

Sampler is a sleek yet formidable multisampling instrument that takes full advantage of Live‘s agile
audio engine. It has been designed from the start to handle multi-gigabyte instrument libraries with
ease, and it imports most common library formats. But with Sampler, playback is only the beginning;
its extensive internal modulation system, which addresses nearly every aspect of its sound, makes it
the natural extension of Live‘s sound-shaping techniques.
