---
id: 28.9.2
title: "Oscillator Section"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.2 Oscillator Section

Oscillator A’s Display and Shell Parameters.

28.9.2.1 Built-in Waveforms

The oscillators come with a built-in collection of basic waveform types — sine, sawtooth, square,
triangle and noise — which are selected from the Wave chooser in the individual oscillator displays.
The first of these waveforms is a pure, mathematical sine wave, which is usually the first choice for
many FM timbres. We also added “Sine 4 Bit“ and “Sine 8 Bit“ to provide the retro sound adored by
C64 fans, and “Saw D“ and “Square D“ digital waveforms, which are especially good for digital
bass sounds. The square, triangle and sawtooth waveforms are resynthesized approximations of the
ideal shape. The numbers included in the displayed name (e.g., “Square 6“) define how many
harmonics are used for the resynthesis. Lower numbers sound mellower and are less likely to create
aliasing when used on high pitches. There are also two built-in noise waveforms. The first, “Noise
Looped,“ is a looping sample of noise. For truly random noise, choose “Noise White.“

28.9.2.2 User Waveforms

The “User“ entry in the Wave chooser allows you to create your own waveforms by drawing the
amplitudes of the oscillator’s harmonics. You can also select one of the built-in waveforms and then
edit it in the same way. The small display next to the Wave chooser gives a real-time overview of your
waveform.

When your mouse is over the Oscillator display area, the cursor will change to a pencil. Drawing in
the display area then raises or lowers the amplitudes of the harmonics. As you adjust the amplitudes,
the Status Bar will show the number of the harmonic you’re adjusting as well as its amplitude. Holding

Shift and dragging will constrain horizontal mouse movement, allowing you to adjust the
amplitude of only one harmonic at a time.

You can switch between editing the first 16, 32 or 64 harmonics via the switches to the right of the
display. Higher harmonics can be generated by repeating the drawn partials with a gradual fadeout,
based on the settings in the Repeat chooser. Low Repeat values result in a brighter sound, while higher
values result in more high-end roll-off and a more prominent fundamental. With Repeat off, partials
above the 16th, 32nd or 64th harmonic are truncated.

The context menu in the harmonics display offers options for editing only the even or odd harmonics.
This is set to “All“ by default. The context menu also offers an option to toggle Normalize on or off.
When enabled, the oscillator’s overall output level is maintained as you draw additional harmonics.
When disabled, additional harmonics add additional level. Note that the volume can become
extremely loud if Normalize is off.

You can export your waveform in .ams format to the Samples/Waveforms folder in your User Library
via an option in the context menu. Ams files can be imported back into Operator by dragging them
from the browser onto one of the oscillator’s display areas. Ams files can also be loaded into Simpler
or Sampler.

Both the built-in and user waveforms can be copied and pasted from one oscillator to another using
the Osc Preview’s context menu.

28.9.2.3 More Oscillator Parameters

The frequency of an oscillator can be adjusted in the shell with its Coarse and Fine controls. An
oscillator’s frequency usually follows that of played notes, but for some sounds it might be useful to set
one or more oscillators to fixed frequencies. This can be done for each individual oscillator by
activating the Fixed option. This allows the creation of sounds in which only the timbre will vary when
different notes are played, but the tuning will stay the same. Fixed Mode would be useful, for
example, in creating live drum sounds. Fixed Mode also allows producing very low frequencies down
to 0.1 Hz. Note that when Fixed Mode is active, the frequency of the oscillator is controlled in the shell
with the Frequency (Freq) and Multiplier (Multi) controls.

Operator includes a special Osc < Vel control for each oscillator that allows altering frequency as a
function of velocity. This feature can be very useful when working with sequenced sounds in which the
velocity of each note can be adjusted carefully. Part of this functionality is the adjacent Q (Quantize)
button. If this control is activated, the frequency will only move in whole numbers, just as if the Coarse
control were being manually adjusted. If quantize is not activated, the frequency will be shifted in an
unquantized manner, leading to detuned or inharmonic sounds (which very well could be exactly
what you want…).

The amplitude of an oscillator depends on the Level setting of the oscillator in the shell and on its
envelope, which is shown and edited when the Envelope display is visible. The envelopes can also be
modified by note velocity and note pitch with the Vel and Key parameters available in the Envelope
section of each oscillator’s display.

The phase of each oscillator can be adjusted using the Phase control in its display. With the R
(Retrigger) button enabled, the waveform restarts at the same position in its phase each time a note is
triggered. With R disabled, the oscillator is free-running.

As explained earlier oscillators can modulate each other when set up to do so with the global
display’s algorithms. When an oscillator is modulating another oscillator, two main properties define
the result: the amplitude of the modulating oscillator and the frequency ratio between both oscillators.
Any oscillator that is not modulated by another oscillator can modulate itself, via the Feedback
parameter in its display.

28.9.2.4 Aliasing

Aliasing distortion is a common side effect of all digital synthesis and is the result of the finite sample
rate and precision of digital systems. It mostly occurs at high frequencies. FM synthesis is especially
likely to produce this kind of effect, since one can easily create sounds with lots of high harmonics. This
also means that more complex oscillator waveforms, such as “Saw 32,“ tend to be more sensitive to
aliasing than pure sine waves. Aliasing is a two-fold beast: A bit of it can be exactly what is needed
to create a cool sound, yet a bit too much can make the timbre unplayable, as the perception of pitch
is lost when high notes suddenly fold back into arbitrary pitches. Operator minimizes aliasing by
working in a high-quality Antialias mode. This is on by default for new patches, but can be turned off
in the global section. The Tone parameter in the global section also allows for controlling aliasing. Its
effect is sometimes similar to a low-pass filter, but this depends on the nature of the sound itself and
cannot generally be predicted. If you want to familiarize yourself with the sound of aliasing, turn Tone
up fully and play a few very high notes. You will most likely notice that some notes sound completely
different from other notes. Now, turn Tone down and the effect will be reduced, but the sound will be
less bright.
