---
id: 28.9.6
title: "Global Controls"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.6 Global Controls

Operator’s Global Display and Shell Parameters.

The global section contains parameters that affect Operator’s overall behavior. Additionally, the
global display area provides a comprehensive set of modulation routing controls.

The maximum number of Operator voices (notes) playing simultaneously can be adjusted with the
Voices parameter in the global display. Ideally, one would want to leave this setting high enough so

that no voices would be turned off while playing, however a setting between 6 and 12 is usually more
realistic when considering CPU power.

Tip: Some sounds should play monophonically by nature, which means that they should only use a
single voice. A flute is a good example. In these cases, you can set Voices to 1. If Voices is set to 1,
another effect occurs: Overlapping voices will be played legato, which means that the envelopes will
not be retriggered from voice to voice, and only pitch will change.

A global Volume control for the instrument can be found in the global section of the shell, and a Pan
control is located in the global section’s display. Pan can be modulated by note pitch or a random
factor, using the adjacent Pan < Key and Pan < Rnd controls, respectively.

The center of the global display allows for a wide variety of internal MIDI mappings. The MIDI
controllers Velocity, Key, Aftertouch, Pitch Bend and Mod Wheel can be mapped to two destinations
each, with independent modulation intensities set via the Amount sliders. Note that Time < Key and
pitch bend range have fixed assignments, although both modulation sources can still be routed to an
additional target. For more information about the available modulation options, see the complete
parameter list.
