---
id: 28.9.2.2
title: "User Waveforms"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.2.2 User Waveforms

The “User“ entry in the Wave chooser allows you to create your own waveforms by drawing the
amplitudes of the oscillator’s harmonics. You can also select one of the built-in waveforms and then
edit it in the same way. The small display next to the Wave chooser gives a real-time overview of your
waveform.

When your mouse is over the Oscillator display area, the cursor will change to a pencil. Drawing in
the display area then raises or lowers the amplitudes of the harmonics. As you adjust the amplitudes,
the Status Bar will show the number of the harmonic you’re adjusting as well as its amplitude. Holding

Shift and dragging will constrain horizontal mouse movement, allowing you to adjust the
amplitude of only one harmonic at a time.

You can switch between editing the first 16, 32 or 64 harmonics via the switches to the right of the
display. Higher harmonics can be generated by repeating the drawn partials with a gradual fadeout,
based on the settings in the Repeat chooser. Low Repeat values result in a brighter sound, while higher
values result in more high-end roll-off and a more prominent fundamental. With Repeat off, partials
above the 16th, 32nd or 64th harmonic are truncated.

The context menu in the harmonics display offers options for editing only the even or odd harmonics.
This is set to “All“ by default. The context menu also offers an option to toggle Normalize on or off.
When enabled, the oscillator’s overall output level is maintained as you draw additional harmonics.
When disabled, additional harmonics add additional level. Note that the volume can become
extremely loud if Normalize is off.

You can export your waveform in .ams format to the Samples/Waveforms folder in your User Library
via an option in the context menu. Ams files can be imported back into Operator by dragging them
from the browser onto one of the oscillator’s display areas. Ams files can also be loaded into Simpler
or Sampler.

Both the built-in and user waveforms can be copied and pasted from one oscillator to another using
the Osc Preview’s context menu.
