---
id: 28.9.4
title: "Envelopes"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.4 Envelopes

Operator’s Oscillator B Envelope.

Operator has seven envelopes: one for each oscillator, a filter envelope, a pitch envelope and an
envelope for the LFO. All envelopes feature some special looping modes. Additionally, the filter and
pitch envelopes have adjustable slopes.

Each oscillator’s volume envelope is defined by six parameters: three rates and three levels. A rate is
the time it takes to go from one level to the next. For instance, a typical pad sound starts with the initial
level “-inf dB“ (which is silence), moves with an attack rate to its peak level, moves from there to the
sustain level with a decay rate, and then finally, after Note Off occurs, back to “-inf dB“ at the release
rate. Operator’s display provides a good overview of the actual shape of any particular envelope
and lets you directly adjust the curve by clicking on a breakpoint and dragging. The breakpoints
retain their selection after clicking, allowing them to be adjusted with the keyboard’s cursor keys, if
desired.

Envelope shapes can be copied and pasted from one oscillator to another in Operator using the
Envelope Display’s context menu.

As mentioned above, the filter and pitch envelopes also have adjustable slopes. Clicking on the
diamonds between the breakpoints allows you to adjust the slope of the envelope segments. Positive
slope values cause the envelope to move quickly at the beginning, then slower. Negative slope values
cause the envelope to remain flat for longer, then move faster at the end. A slope of zero is linear; the
envelope will move at the same rate throughout the segment.

With FM synthesis, it is possible to create spectacular, endless, permuting sounds; the key to doing this
is looping envelopes. Loop Mode can be activated in the lower left corner of the display. If an
envelope in Operator is in Loop Mode and reaches sustain level while the note is still being held, it
will be retriggered. The rate for this movement is defined by the Loop Time parameter. Note that
envelopes in Loop Mode can loop very quickly and can therefore be used to achieve effects that one
would not normally expect from an envelope generator.

While Loop Mode is good for textures and experimental sounds, Operator also includes Beat and
Sync Modes, which provide a simple way of creating rhythmical sounds. If set to Beat Mode, an
envelope will restart after the beat time selected from the Repeat chooser. In Beat Mode, the repeat
time is defined in fractions of song time, but notes are not quantized. If you play a note a bit out of
sync, it will repeat perfectly but stay out of sync. In Sync Mode however, the first repetition is
quantized to the nearest 16th note and, as a result, all following repetitions are synced to the song
tempo. Note that Sync Mode only works if the song is playing, and otherwise it will behave like Beat
Mode.

To avoid the audible clicks caused by restarting from its initial level, a looped envelope will restart
from its actual level and move with the set attack rate to peak level.

There is also a mode called Trigger that is ideal for working with percussive sounds. In this mode, Note
Off is ignored. This means that the length of time a key is held has no effect on the length of the sound.

The rates of all the envelopes in Operator can be scaled in unison by the Time control in the global
section of the shell. Note that beat-time values in Beat and Sync Modes are not influenced by the
global Time parameter. Envelope rates can be further modified by note pitch, as dictated by the Time
< Key parameter in the global section’s display. The rate of an individual envelope can also be
modified by velocity using the Time < Vel parameter. These modulations in conjunction with the loop
feature can be used to create very, very complex things…

The pitch envelope can be turned on or off for each individual oscillator and for the LFO using the
Destination A-D and LFO buttons in its display. The intensity of this envelope’s modulation of these
targets can be adjusted by the Dest. A slider and the envelope can be turned off altogether via the
switch in the pitch section of the shell.

Like the LFO, the pitch envelope can modulate an additional parameter as chosen by the Dest. B
chooser. The intensity of this modulation is determined by the Amt. B slider and the main Pitch Env
value.

The pitch and filter envelopes each have an additional parameter called End, which determines the
level the envelope will move to after the key is released. The rate of this envelope segment is
determined by the release time.

Tip: If the pitch envelope is only applied to the LFO and is looping, it can serve as another LFO,
modulating the rate of the first. And, since the envelope of the LFO itself can loop, it can serve as a
third LFO modulating the intensity of the first!
