---
id: 28.9.2.3
title: "More Oscillator Parameters"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.2.3 More Oscillator Parameters

The frequency of an oscillator can be adjusted in the shell with its Coarse and Fine controls. An
oscillator’s frequency usually follows that of played notes, but for some sounds it might be useful to set
one or more oscillators to fixed frequencies. This can be done for each individual oscillator by
activating the Fixed option. This allows the creation of sounds in which only the timbre will vary when
different notes are played, but the tuning will stay the same. Fixed Mode would be useful, for
example, in creating live drum sounds. Fixed Mode also allows producing very low frequencies down
to 0.1 Hz. Note that when Fixed Mode is active, the frequency of the oscillator is controlled in the shell
with the Frequency (Freq) and Multiplier (Multi) controls.

Operator includes a special Osc < Vel control for each oscillator that allows altering frequency as a
function of velocity. This feature can be very useful when working with sequenced sounds in which the
velocity of each note can be adjusted carefully. Part of this functionality is the adjacent Q (Quantize)
button. If this control is activated, the frequency will only move in whole numbers, just as if the Coarse
control were being manually adjusted. If quantize is not activated, the frequency will be shifted in an
unquantized manner, leading to detuned or inharmonic sounds (which very well could be exactly
what you want…).

The amplitude of an oscillator depends on the Level setting of the oscillator in the shell and on its
envelope, which is shown and edited when the Envelope display is visible. The envelopes can also be
modified by note velocity and note pitch with the Vel and Key parameters available in the Envelope
section of each oscillator’s display.

The phase of each oscillator can be adjusted using the Phase control in its display. With the R
(Retrigger) button enabled, the waveform restarts at the same position in its phase each time a note is
triggered. With R disabled, the oscillator is free-running.

As explained earlier oscillators can modulate each other when set up to do so with the global
display’s algorithms. When an oscillator is modulating another oscillator, two main properties define
the result: the amplitude of the modulating oscillator and the frequency ratio between both oscillators.
Any oscillator that is not modulated by another oscillator can modulate itself, via the Feedback
parameter in its display.
