---
id: 28.9.7
title: "Glide and Spread"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.7 Glide and Spread

Operator’s Pitch Display and Shell Parameters.

Operator includes a polyphonic glide function. When this function is activated, new notes will start
with the pitch of the last note played and then slide gradually to their own played pitch. Glide can be
turned on or off and adjusted with the Glide Time control in the pitch display.

Operator also offers a special Spread parameter that creates a rich stereo chorus by using two voices
per note and panning one to the left and one to the right. The two voices are detuned, and the amount
of detuning can be adjusted with the Spread control in the pitch section of the shell.

Whether or not spread is applied to a particular note depends upon the setting of the Spread
parameter during the Note On event. To achieve special effects, you could, for instance, create a
sequence where Spread is 0 most of the time and turned on only for some notes. These notes will then
play in stereo, while the others will play mono. Note that Spread is a CPU-intensive parameter.

The pitch section also contains a global Transpose knob.

28.9.8 Strategies for Saving CPU Power

If you want to save CPU power, turn off features that you do not need or reduce the number of voices.
Specifically, turning off the filter or the LFO if they do not contribute to the sound will save CPU power.

For the sake of saving CPU resources, you will also usually want to reduce the number of voices to
something between 6 and 12, and carefully use the Spread feature. The Interpolation and Antialias
modes in the global display can also be turned off to conserve CPU resources.

Note that turning off the oscillators will not save CPU power.
