---
id: 28.9.10.2
title: "Modulation Targets"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.10.2 Modulation Targets

These modulation targets are available as MIDI routing destinations in the global display, and also as
modulation targets for the LFO and pitch envelope.

Off — Disabled this controller’s modulation routing.

OSC Volume A-D — Modulates the volume of the selected oscillator.

OSC Crossfade A/C — Crossfades the volumes of the A and C oscillators based on the value of the
modulation source.

OSC Crossfade B/D — Crossfades the volumes of the B and D oscillators based on the value of the
modulation source.

OSC Feedback — Modulates the amount of feedback for all oscillators. Note that feedback is only
applied to oscillators that are not modulated by other oscillators.

OSC Fixed Frequency — Modulates the pitch of all oscillators that are in Fixed Frequency mode.

FM Drive — Modulates the volume of all oscillators which are modulating other oscillators, thus
changing the timbre.

Filter Frequency — Modulates the cutoff frequency of the filter.

Filter Q (Legacy) — Modulates the resonance of the filter when using the legacy filter types.

Filter Res — Modulates the resonance of the filter when using the updated filter types.

Filter Morph — Modulates the position in the filter’s morph cycle (only has an effect for the Morph
filter type.)

Filter Drive — Modulates the amount of the Drive (not available when the Morph filter is selected.)

Filter Envelope Amount — Modulates the filter’s envelope intensity.

Shaper Drive — Modulates the amount of gain applied to the filter’s waveshaper.

LFO Rate — Modulates the rate of the LFO.

LFO Amount — Modulates the intensity of the LFO.

Pitch Envelope Amount — Modulates the intensity of the pitch envelope.

Volume — Modulates Operator’s global output volume.

Panorama — Modulates the position of Operator’s output in the stereo field.

Tone — Modulates the global Tone parameter.

Time — Modulates the global control for all envelope rates.
