---
id: 28.9.10.4
title: "Filter Shell and Display"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.10.4 Filter Shell and Display

Filter On — This turns the filter on and off. Turning it off when it is unused saves CPU power.

Filter Type — This chooser selects from low-pass, high-pass, band-pass, notch, and Morph filters.

Circuit Type — This chooser selects from a variety of circuit types that emulate the character of classic
analog synthesizers.

Filter Frequency (Freq) — This defines the center or cutoff frequency of the filter. Note that the resulting
frequency may also be modulated by note velocity and by the filter envelope.

Filter Resonance (Res) — This defines the resonance around the filter frequency of the low-pass and
high-pass filters, and the width of the band-pass and notch filters.

Envelope / Filter Switches — These switches toggle the display between the filter’s envelope and its
frequency response.

Filter Frequency < Velocity (Freq < Vel) — Filter frequency is modulated by note velocity according to
this setting.

Filter Frequency < Key (Freq < Key) — Filter frequency is modulated by note pitch according to this
setting. A value of 100% means that the frequency doubles per octave. The center point for this
function is C3.

Filter Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — This parameter exists for filter, pitch, LFO and volume
envelopes. It is therefore listed in the section on envelopes.

Filter Frequency < Envelope (Envelope) — Filter frequency is modulated by the filter envelope
according to this setting. A value of 100% means that the envelope can create a maximum frequency
shift of approximately 9 octaves.

Filter Drive (Flt. Drive) — Applies additional input gain to the signal before it enters the filter.

Morph — Controls the position of the Morph filter in its morph cycle.

Shaper — This chooser selects the curve for the filter’s waveshaper.

Shaper Drive (Shp. Drive) — This boosts or attenuates the signal level being sent to the waveshaper.

Dry/Wet — This adjusts the balance between the dry signal and the signal processed by the
waveshaper.
