---
id: 28.9.10.5
title: "LFO Shell and Display"
chapter: 28
---
# 28.9.10.5 LFO Shell and Display

LFO On — This turns the LFO (low-frequency oscillator) on and off. Turning it off when it is unused
saves some CPU power.

LFO Waveform — Select from among several typical LFO waveforms. Sample and Hold (S&H)
creates random steps, and Noise supplies band-pass filtered noise. All waveforms are band-limited to
avoid unwanted clicks.

LFO Range — The LFO covers an extreme frequency range. Choose Low for a range from 50 seconds
to 30 Hz, or Hi for 8 Hz to 12 kHz. Sync causes the LFO’s rate to be synced to your Set’s tempo. Due
to the possible high frequencies, the LFO can also function as a fifth oscillator.

Retrigger (R) — When enabled, the LFO restarts at the same position in its phase each time a note is
triggered. With R disabled, the LFO is free-running.

LFO Rate (Rate) — This sets the rate of the LFO. The actual frequency also depends on the setting of
the LFO Range and the LFO Rate < Key controls.

LFO Amount (Amount) — This sets the overall intensity of the LFO. Note that the actual effect also
depends on the LFO envelope.

LFO to Osc (Destination A-D) — The LFO modulates the frequency of the respective oscillator if this is
turned on.

LFO to Filter Cutoff Frequency (Destination FIL) — The LFO modulates the cutoff frequency of the filter if
this is turned on.

LFO Amount A — This sets the intensity of the LFO’s modulation of the oscillators and filter.

LFO Destination B — This sets the second modulation destination for the LFO.

LFO Amount B — This sets the intensity of the LFO’s modulation of the secondary target.

LFO Envelope Rates < Velocity (Time < Vel) — This parameter exists for filter, pitch, LFO and volume
envelopes. It is therefore listed in the section on envelopes.

LFO Rate < Key (Rate < Key) — The LFO’s frequency can be a function of note pitch. If this is set to
100%, the LFO will double its frequency per octave, functioning like a normal oscillator.

LFO Amount < Velocity (Amt < Vel) — This setting adjusts modulation of the LFO intensity by note
velocity.
