---
id: 10.2
title: "Zooming and Navigating in the MIDI Note"
chapter: 10
---
# 10.2 Zooming and Navigating in the MIDI Note

Editor

There are different ways of interacting with the MIDI Note Editor and its contents:

MIDI Note Editor Navigation.

1.

2.

3.

4.

To smoothly adjust the time zoom level, click and drag vertically in the time ruler. Drag
horizontally in the time ruler to scroll from left to right. While scrolling up and down inside the
MIDI Note Editor, you can also hold the Ctrl (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier to change the
time zoom level.
Scroll up and down in the note ruler to change which octaves are shown. Click and drag
horizontally in the note ruler to change the zoom level for key tracks, the MIDI notes they
contain and the piano ruler keys. While scrolling up and down inside the MIDI Note Editor, you
can also hold the Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) modifier to change the key tracks zoom level.
Click and drag over one or more notes to select them, or over an area in the MIDI Note Editor
to select a range of time. Then, double-click on the note ruler or time ruler to automatically
zoom in on your selection. Double-clicking on the note ruler will zoom in on the key tracks,
while double-clicking on the time ruler will zoom in on the selected time range. If nothing is
selected, double-clicking the note ruler will zoom in on the area from the lowest to the highest
note in the clip, while double-clicking the time ruler will zoom out to show the time between the
first and last note. Note that if you zoom in to the point when the time selection is no longer
displayed on the screen, double-clicking in the note ruler or time ruler will zoom out the MIDI
Note Editor so that the entire selection is in view.
The clip overview in the Clip View Selector in the bottom right corner of the Live window can
also be used for navigation. It always shows the complete contents of the selected MIDI clip.
The black rectangular outline represents the part of the clip that is currently displayed in the
MIDI Note Editor. To scroll, click within the outline and drag left or right; to zoom in and out,
drag up and down. You can also adjust the size of the outline by dragging its left or right
edges.

You can also use the computer keyboard to quickly navigate within the current selection MIDI Note
Editor. Use Page Up/Down keys to scroll vertically one octave up/down. Add the Shift modifier
to scroll vertically by just one key track up/down. To zoom in and out around the current time
selection, use the + and - keys. Zoom in fully into the current selection with the Z key. Zoom out
to view the full clip with the X key. Use Alt (Win) / Option (Mac) and + or - key to zoom
in to or out of the MIDI Note Editor.

As you work with MIDI, you may find yourself needing extra screen space. You can click and drag
vertically on the window split between the Session or Arrangement View and the Clip View to
increase the height of the Clip View and with it, also the size of the MIDI Note Editor.

Enlarge the MIDI Note Editor by Dragging the Window Split Between Session and Clip Views.

Clip View can be toggled to its maximum height using the Ctrl
E (Mac) keyboard shortcuts or the Expand Clip View entry in the View menu.

Alt

E (Win) / Cmd

Option

10.2.1 Grid Snapping

Most functions in the MIDI Note Editor are subject to grid snapping. This means that when you adjust
note positions, the grid acts as if it is magnetic: when you first move a note, it will move freely up to the
first grid line you encounter and afterwards, if you continue to drag the note, it will snap to grid lines
rather than move freely. You can bypass grid snapping by turning off the grid using the Grid Settings
button, by deactivating the Snap to Grid option in the Options menu, or by pressing the Ctrl
(Win) / Cmd
pressing the Alt (Win) / Cmd (Mac) modifier while performing editing operations. The opposite is
also true: if grid is disabled, it is possible to temporarily enable it using the same modifier.

4 (Mac) key combination. Grid snapping can also be bypassed temporarily by

Notes will also snap to an offset, which is based on the original placement of the note relative to the
grid. This is useful for preserving a groove or loose playing style that you do not necessarily want to
sound too “quantized.”

10.2.2 Playback Options

The MIDI Note Editor can be set to scroll with playback using the Follow switch in the Control Bar.
Follow will pause if you make an edit in the MIDI Note Editor, and will start again when you press the
Follow switch again, when you stop and restart playback, or when you stop playback and click in the
scrub area in the clip or the Arrangement View.

The Control Bar’s Follow Switch.

When Permanent Scrub Areas is enabled in Live’s Display & Input Settings, clicking in the scrub area
below the beat-time ruler starts playback from that point, rounded by the global quantization setting.

Activating the Options menu’s Chase MIDI Notes command allows MIDI notes to play back even if
playback begins after the MIDI note’s start time.

When the Permanent Scrub Areas preference is off, you can still scrub by Shift -clicking anywhere
in the scrub area or in the beat-time ruler. Learning about looping and scrubbing clips, and the
shortcuts associated with these actions can also be helpful in getting around in the MIDI Note Editor
and playing selections quickly and easily.
