---
id: 26.35.5
title: "Sidechain Parameters"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.35.5 Sidechain Parameters

Shifter’s Sidechain Parameters.

To access the Sidechain parameters, unfold the Shifter window by toggling the triangle button on the
left of the title bar. There are two Pitch Modes available that determine how the pitch or frequency is
set: Internal and MIDI. In Internal mode, the pitch or frequency is set by Shifter’s Coarse and Fine
knobs. In MIDI mode, the pitch or frequency is set by an incoming MIDI note.

In MIDI mode, you will see a drop-down menu where you can select an external MIDI source. There
is also a Glide parameter that adjusts the time in milliseconds over which it takes notes to slide their
pitch to the next incoming pitch. You can set a pitch bend range between 0-24 semitones to define the
effect of MIDI pitch bend messages using the PB slider.

26.35.6 Shifter Tips

26.35.6.1 Pitch-shifted Drum Layers

To add glitchy, metallic echoes to a drum loop, duplicate your drum track and add Shifter after the
Drum Rack. In Pitch mode, try adjusting or automating the Coarse knob and enable the Delay button.
Higher pitch shifts will create a metallic and crisp echoed delay. Lower pitch shifts will create a
drawn-out delay effect. You can lower the volume of the pitch-shifted track so that it sits in the
background, adding some movement to the main drum track.

26.35.6.2 Phasing Effects

To create lush phasing effects, minimally adjust (no more than 2 Hz or so) the Fine knob in Freq mode.
Phasing is caused by the interaction of the processed and dry signals; you can adjust the Mix balance
so that both are audible. The strongest phasing will be heard when MIx is at 50%.

26.35.6.3 Tremolo Effects

In Ring mode, frequencies below the audible range (about 20 Hz or slightly lower) create a tremolo
effect. You can also impart a sense of stereo motion to the tremolo by turning on Wide and using small
Spread values.
