---
id: 26.10.5
title: "Sidechain Parameters"
chapter: 26
---
# 26.10.5 Sidechain Parameters

Corpus’s Sidechain Parameters.

The frequency and/or decay rate of the resonance can be MIDI-modulated by enabling the
Frequency and/or Off Decay switches in the Sidechain section. Toggle the
bar to access Sidechain parameters. This button will light up if the sidechain is active.

 button in Corpus’s title

The MIDI From choosers allow you to select the MIDI track and tapping point from which to receive
MIDI note information.

With Frequency enabled, the tuning of the resonance is determined by the incoming MIDI note. If
multiple notes are held simultaneously, the Last/Low switch determines whether the last or the lowest
note will have priority. The Transpose and Fine knobs in the Resonator section allow for coarse and
fine offset of the MIDI-modulated tuning. PB Range sets the range in semitones of pitch bend
modulation.

With Frequency deactivated, the Tune control in the Resonator section adjusts the base frequency of
the resonance in Hertz. The corresponding MIDI note number and fine tuning offset in cents is
displayed below.

Enabling Off Decay causes MIDI Note Off messages to mute the resonance. The slider below the
switch determines the extent to which MIDI Note Off messages mute the resonance. At 0%, Note Offs
are ignored, and the decay time is based only on the value of the Decay parameter, which can be
adjusted using the X-Y controller or Decay slider. This is similar to how real-world mallet instruments
such as marimbas and glockenspiels behave. At 100%, the resonance is muted immediately at Note
Off, regardless of the Decay time.
