---
id: 11.1
title: "Using MIDI Tools"
chapter: 11
---
# 11.1 Using MIDI Tools

In order to transform notes or generate notes using a MIDI Tool, open the Transform or Generate
panel, select a tool from the Transformation/Generator Selector chooser and tweak the settings in the
selected MIDI Tool’s interface. By default, the Auto Apply button is active for all MIDI Tools. This
means that MIDI notes will be transformed or generated immediately when adjusting a MIDI Tool’s
settings.

The Auto Apply Button.

Any subsequent changes to a MIDI Tool’s parameters will be visible in the MIDI Note Editor straight
away. If you do not wish for the Transformations and Generators to have an immediate effect, toggle
off the Auto Apply button. Note that toggling the button off will restore notes to their original state.

With the Auto Apply button toggled off, you can fine-tune a MIDI Tool’s parameters and, once you’re
happy with the settings, press the Apply button for the adjustments to take effect.

The Apply Button.

You can also apply the currently selected MIDI Tool without leaving the MIDI Note Editor by pressing
Ctrl

Enter (Win) / Cmd

Enter (Mac).

Transformations are applied to the time selection, note selection, or clip loop (when there is no time or
note selection). When using Transformations, the existing notes get replaced with the transformed
notes.

Generators are applied to the time selection or clip loop (when there is no time selection). If there are
already notes present in the MIDI Note Editor when a Generator is applied, the generated notes will
be added alongside the existing content (if the existing notes and the generated notes don’t overlap)
or will replace the existing notes (if the existing and generated notes overlap).

Since MIDI Tools are scale-aware, if a scale is enabled for a clip, any MIDI Tools’ parameters related
to pitch will use scale degrees instead of semitones.

The transformation or generation of notes can be undone and redone with the Undo and Redo
commands in the Edit menu. Note that these commands only affect changes made to MIDI notes and
not changes made to a MIDI Tool’s parameters. You can restore the parameters to their default state
with the Reset button. The button becomes grayed out when the MIDI Tool is reset to default.

An Active Reset Button.

The Reset button only applies to the parameters in the selected MIDI Tool and has no effect on the
MIDI notes.
