---
id: 18.3
title: "Group Tracks"
chapter: 18
---
# 18.3 Group Tracks

You can combine any number of individual audio or MIDI tracks into a special kind of summing
container called a Group Track. To create a Group Track, select the tracks to include and execute the
Edit menu’s Group Tracks command. You also use this command to nest an existing Group Track(s)
within a new Group Track.

Group Tracks themselves cannot contain clips, but they are similar to audio tracks in that they have
mixer controls and can host audio effects.

Group Tracks also provide a quick way to create submixes. When tracks are placed into a group,
their Audio To routing choosers are automatically assigned to their Group Track unless they already
had a custom routing, i.e. to a destination other than Main. You can also use a Group Track purely as
a “folder“ track by rerouting the outputs of the contained tracks to some other destination.

The tracks in a group can be shown or hidden via the Unfold Group button in the title bar. This can
help you to organize large Sets by hiding away tracks that you don’t need to see.

An Unfolded Group Track in Session View.

Once a Group Track has been created, tracks can be dragged into or out of the group. Deleting a
Group Track deletes all of its contents, but a group can be reverted back into individual tracks by
executing the Edit Menu’s Ungroup Tracks command.

Group Tracks in Arrangement View show an overview of the clips in the contained tracks.

A Folded Group Track in Arrangement View

In Session View, slots in Group Tracks have launch and stop buttons whenever at least one clip is
available in a given scene. Launching or stopping this button has the same effect as launching or
stopping all contained clips. Likewise, selecting a Group Slot serves as a shortcut for selecting all of
the contained clips.

To apply a Group Track’s color to all of its contained tracks and clips, you can use the Assign Track
Color to Grouped Tracks and Clips command in the respective Group Track header’s context menu.

Note that when using the Assign Track Color to Grouped Tracks and Clips command in Session View,
the color change will only affect Session clips. Likewise, using either command in Arrangement View
will only change the color of Arrangement clips.

If a Group Track contains a soloed track or nested Group Track, its Solo button will appear half
colored.

Solo Button of a Group Track Containing a Soloed Nested Group Track.
