---
id: 6.4
title: "Launching the Arrangement with Locators"
chapter: 6
---
# 6.4 Launching the Arrangement with Locators

To set up multiple locations in the Arrangement for triggering playback, you can add launchable
locators to the scrub area.

Use Locators to Launch Playback in the Arrangement.

The Set Locator button can be used to add locators to any part of the Arrangement in real time during
playback or when recording. Locators are quantized according to the global launch quantization
value set in the Control Bar.

The Set Locator Button.

If you use the Set Locator button while transport is not running, a locator will be added at the insert
marker location or at the start of the time selection. You can also set locators using the Add Locator
option in the scrub area’s context menu or via the Create menu.

Note that when locators are added to the Arrangement, the Set Locator button becomes the Delete
Locator button for any selected locators.

You can jump to locators by clicking on them or by using the Previous and Next Locator buttons below
the Set button. After jumping to the first or last locator in the Arrangement, the Previous and Next
Locator buttons will jump to the Arrangement start or end, respectively.

The Previous and Next Locator Buttons.

Locators can also be triggered using MIDI/key mapping. If the transport is stopped, double-clicking
on a locator will select it and start playback from that point.

Selected locators can be moved by clicking and dragging or by using the arrow keys. You can
rename selected locators using the Rename option in the Edit menu or the shortcut Ctrl
Cmd

R (Mac). You can also enter your own info text descriptions for locators via the Edit Info Text

R (Win) /

option in the Edit menu or the locator’s context menu. To delete a locator, use the Delete key, the
Delete Locator option in the Create menu, or the Delete Locator button.

The Loop to Next Locator command in a locator’s context menu offers a quick way of looping
playback between two locators. The Set Song Start Time Here command can be used to overrule the
default “playback starts at selection“ behavior: when this command is checked, playback starts at the
locator instead.
